content/testing/beta-testing-with-testmagic.md, before:

---
description: View, test and distribute your Codemagic builds with Testmagic
title: Beta testing with Testmagic
weight: 6
---

Codemagic is seamlessly integrated with [Testmagic](https://testmagic.io/), a simple mobile app for viewing, testing and distributing your Codemagic builds. You can download it from [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.nevercode.testmagic&hl=en) for Android and request the app download link for iOS via the #testmagic channel in our [Slack community](https://join.slack.com/t/flutterci/shared_invite/enQtNDcwODIzMjM4MzI2LWJhNWRkMjZlMjk1YzgzNGUwZjQ5NmUxYTI3YjQzODdlMGU1Nzg5OWQ3NGM3NDdhNGIyNjY1YTUzZTgyNTJkMTc).

With Testmagic, you can:

- Instantly get notified when a build is finished on Codemagic
- Download app binaries on your device
- Report feedback and screenshots about the build back to Codemagic
- View the reported feedback in the build overview on Codemagic
- Distribute app binaries by sharing a download link

To get started with Testmagic, see the step-by-step guide on our [blog](https://blog.codemagic.io/getting-started-with-testmagic/ 'Getting started with Testmagic').

Commit message:

Update Testmagic iOS link in docs.
People ask for the Testmagic link in Slack because of this part in the documentation. - added link to testflight here so they don't have to go to Slack and keep Slack channel for discussions.

content/testing/beta-testing-with-testmagic.md, after:

---
description: View, test and distribute your Codemagic builds with Testmagic
title: Beta testing with Testmagic
weight: 6
---

Codemagic is seamlessly integrated with [Testmagic](https://testmagic.io/), a simple mobile app for viewing, testing and distributing your Codemagic builds. You can download it from [Google Play](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.nevercode.testmagic&hl=en) for Android or join the testflight group for iOS - [link](https://testflight.apple.com/join/lEQLSjoe). For discussions, join #testmagic channel in our [Slack community](https://join.slack.com/t/flutterci/shared_invite/enQtNDcwODIzMjM4MzI2LWJhNWRkMjZlMjk1YzgzNGUwZjQ5NmUxYTI3YjQzODdlMGU1Nzg5OWQ3NGM3NDdhNGIyNjY1YTUzZTgyNTJkMTc).

With Testmagic, you can:

- Instantly get notified when a build is finished on Codemagic
- Download app binaries on your device
- Report feedback and screenshots about the build back to Codemagic
- View the reported feedback in the build overview on Codemagic
- Distribute app binaries by sharing a download link

To get started with Testmagic, see the step-by-step guide on our [blog](https://blog.codemagic.io/getting-started-with-testmagic/ 'Getting started with Testmagic').
