content/testing/static-code-analysis.md, before:

---
description: Test your code with flutter analyze.
title: Static code analysis
weight: 2
---

Test your code with `flutter analyze` to find possible mistakes. You can read more about this feature in [Dart documentation](https://dart.dev/guides/language/analysis-options). By default, static code analysis is disabled and has to be enabled in **App settings > Test** by checking the **Enable Flutter analyzer** option.

To run `flutter analyze`, Codemagic specifies the `analyze` command in the **Flutter analyze arguments** field. You can pass additional arguments to customize static code analysis. For example, adding `--write=analyzer-output.txt` prints the results of static code analysis into a text file. 

If you check **Stop build if tests fail**, the build will fail if any issues are detected during static code analysis.

When enabled, `flutter analyze` will be run with each build. You can see the results and the logs of the analysis under the **Running tests** step in build overview.

Commit message:

Flutter UI vs. Yaml docs improvements (#273)
* Remove separator under title.

* Render description as a subtitle.

* Updated, added, or deleted descriptions for all docs. Drive by corrected punctuation and small issues.

* Hack to add space after subtitle when first content of markdown is a notebox.

* Add page description subtitle to search results

* Add warning boxes with links between flutter and yaml code signing pages

* Add warning boxes with links from flutter google play and app store connect publishing to yaml publishing

* Updated all occurrences of Flutter UI to Flutter workflow editor. Clarified usages of UI when appropriate.

content/testing/static-code-analysis.md, after:

---
description: How to run Flutter analyze in Flutter workflow editor configured builds
title: Static code analysis
weight: 2
---

Test your code with `flutter analyze` to find possible mistakes. You can read more about this feature in [Dart documentation](https://dart.dev/guides/language/analysis-options). By default, static code analysis is disabled and has to be enabled in **App settings > Test** by checking the **Enable Flutter analyzer** option.

To run `flutter analyze`, Codemagic specifies the `analyze` command in the **Flutter analyze arguments** field. You can pass additional arguments to customize static code analysis. For example, adding `--write=analyzer-output.txt` prints the results of static code analysis into a text file. 

If you check **Stop build if tests fail**, the build will fail if any issues are detected during static code analysis.

When enabled, `flutter analyze` will be run with each build. You can see the results and the logs of the analysis under the **Running tests** step in build overview.
