content/getting-started/adding-apps-from-custom-sources.md, before:

---
description: Add your Flutter app wherever it is hosted
title: Adding apps from custom sources
weight: 4
---

You can add apps from public or private Git-based repositories. 

{{<notebox>}}
* Note that webhooks for automatic build triggering need to be [set up manually](../building/automatic-build-triggering/#webhooks).
{{</notebox>}}

## Connecting repository via HTTP/HTTPS

1. Click **Add app from custom source** on the Applications page.

    {{< figure size="medium" src="../uploads/add-app-from-custom-source1.png" caption="" >}}

2. Enter the **Repository URL** for **cloning** the repository. You can find the URL from your repository on clicking **Clone** / **Clone or download**. Usually, the URL is in this format: `https://example.com/path/to/repository.git`.
3. If it's a private repository that requires username and password for authentication, check **Private repository** and enter the **Username** and **Password**. Leave this option unchecked for public repositories.
4. Click **Add application**.

Your app will be then listed on the Applications page and you can immediately start running builds.

## Connecting repository via SSH

1. Click **Add app from custom source** on the Applications page.

    {{< figure size="medium" src="../uploads/add-app-from-custom-source1.png" caption="" >}}

2. Enter the **Repository URL** for **cloning** the repository. Usually, the URL is in this format: ` git@example.com:username/repo.git `.
3. Upload the **SSH private key** file. If your key is password-protected, enter the **Private key passphrase**. 

    **Alternatively**, you can click **Generate key pair** and have Codemagic create an SSH key pair for you, read more about it [below](#generating-a-key-pair-in-codemagic).
4. Click **Add application**.

Your app will be then listed on the Applications page and you can immediately start running builds.

{{<notebox>}}If you need to update the private key in Codemagic, you can upload or generate a new one in **App settings > Repository settings > Repository access settings**.{{</notebox>}}

### Generating a key pair in Codemagic

On clicking **Generate key pair**, Codemagic creates a secure 4096 bit SSH key pair. The private key will be used in Codemagic and the public key must be added to your repository settings. Click **Copy to clipboard** to copy the public key.

* If your repository is hosted on [GitHub](https://developer.github.com/v3/guides/managing-deploy-keys/#setup-2), [GitLab](https://www.deployhq.com/support/projects/updating-your-project-repository/uploading-your-public-key-to-gitlab-manually) or [Bitbucket](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/use-access-keys-294486051.html), add the public key to your repository's access/deployment keys.
* For self-hosted repositories, request your git server admins to allow access for the provided public key.

After you have added the public key to your repository settings, finish adding the app by clicking **Add application**.

{{<notebox>}}Don't close the **Add application from custom source** module before you have finished adding the app, otherwise you'll need to start over and generate a new SSH key.{{</notebox>}}

## Repositories behind firewall

To allow Codemagic access the private repository, the following IP addresses need to be whitelisted:

1. `34.74.32.93` - used by our backend for getting basic information about the repository
2. `192.159.66.80/28` - used by our builder servers to download the code and build it

## Modifying repository access settings

When you have moved your repository or need to update the username/password or private key used to access it, you can change the access details in **App settings > Repository settings > Repository access settings**. Once you have changed the relevant settings, click **Update access settings**. Codemagic will verify it has access to the repository using the updated details before saving the settings.

Commit message:

all the yaml changes (#102)
* yaml changes

* changes in yaml

* templates

* added a page

* templates: added ios project template, moved add-to-app templates in the end, description to package publishing, chapter with building for native

* minor changes

* hierarchy

* split templates into small chunks. added drive test to tests. added pub.dev credentials to environment variables

* added links to cli tools

* fix and prettiry cli-tools links. use android-app-bundle instead of being deprecated universal-apk

* using cli-tools locally

* restructure a bit

* added value alternatives note, git changelog example

* .

* .

* cleaning

* + Flutter test

* added link

* a lot of overall changes

* minor changes

* minor edits

* added path to previous

* .

* minor changes

* .

* firebase app distribution, cli for ios and android, gradle for android

* publish to firebase app distribution using fastlane

* minor update on text

* build flow changes

* fixed headers size

* step 99

* minor changes

* added app store connect

* .

* move keychain link, add xcodebuild command for unsigned ios app

* comment fixes

* app description changes

* .

* app store connect

* move code signing separately and some small fixes

* small comment fixes

* aesthetic fixes + new build flow changes

* added introduction to distribution page

Co-authored-by: Reena Purret <purret_reena@yahoo.com>
Co-authored-by: Stanislav Bondarenko <bondarenko.stanislav.96@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Rimante Valancauskaite <rimante@MacBook-Pro.lan>
Co-authored-by: rimanteval <rvalancauskaite@gmail.com>

content/getting-started/adding-apps-from-custom-sources.md, after:

---
description: Add your Flutter app wherever it is hosted
title: Adding apps from custom sources
weight: 4
---

You can add apps from public or private Git-based repositories. 

{{<notebox>}}
* Note that webhooks for automatic build triggering need to be [set up manually](../building/automatic-build-triggering/#webhooks).
{{</notebox>}}

## Connecting repository via HTTP/HTTPS

1. Click **Add app from custom source** on the Applications page.

    {{< figure size="medium" src="../uploads/add-app-from-custom-source1.png" caption="" >}}

2. Enter the **Repository URL** for **cloning** the repository. You can find the URL from your repository on clicking **Clone** / **Clone or download**. Usually, the URL is in this format: `https://example.com/path/to/repository.git`.
3. If it's a private repository that requires username and password for authentication, check **Private repository** and enter the **Username** and **Password**. Leave this option unchecked for public repositories.
4. Click **Add application**.

Your app will be then listed on the Applications page and you can then continue configuring your project by clicking on **Configure for building**.

## Connecting repository via SSH

1. Click **Add app from custom source** on the Applications page.

    {{< figure size="medium" src="../uploads/add-app-from-custom-source1.png" caption="" >}}

2. Enter the **Repository URL** for **cloning** the repository. Usually, the URL is in this format: ` git@example.com:username/repo.git `.
3. Upload the **SSH private key** file. If your key is password-protected, enter the **Private key passphrase**. 

    **Alternatively**, you can click **Generate key pair** and have Codemagic create an SSH key pair for you, read more about it [below](#generating-a-key-pair-in-codemagic).
4. Click **Add application**.

Your app will be then listed on the Applications page and you can then continue configuring your project by clicking on **Configure for building**.

{{<notebox>}}If you need to update the private key in Codemagic, you can upload or generate a new one in **App settings > Repository settings > Repository access settings**.{{</notebox>}}

### Generating a key pair in Codemagic

On clicking **Generate key pair**, Codemagic creates a secure 4096 bit SSH key pair. The private key will be used in Codemagic and the public key must be added to your repository settings. Click **Copy to clipboard** to copy the public key.

* If your repository is hosted on [GitHub](https://developer.github.com/v3/guides/managing-deploy-keys/#setup-2), [GitLab](https://www.deployhq.com/support/projects/updating-your-project-repository/uploading-your-public-key-to-gitlab-manually) or [Bitbucket](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/use-access-keys-294486051.html), add the public key to your repository's access/deployment keys.
* For self-hosted repositories, request your git server admins to allow access for the provided public key.

After you have added the public key to your repository settings, finish adding the app by clicking **Add application**.

{{<notebox>}}Don't close the **Add application from custom source** module before you have finished adding the app, otherwise you'll need to start over and generate a new SSH key.{{</notebox>}}

## Repositories behind firewall

To allow Codemagic access the private repository, the following IP addresses need to be whitelisted:

1. `34.74.32.93` - used by our backend for getting basic information about the repository
2. `192.159.66.80/28` - used by our builder servers to download the code and build it

## Modifying repository access settings

When you have moved your repository or need to update the username/password or private key used to access it, you can change the access details in **App settings > Repository settings > Repository access settings**. Once you have changed the relevant settings, click **Update access settings**. Codemagic will verify it has access to the repository using the updated details before saving the settings.
