content/getting-started/building-a-snap-package.md, before:

---
title: Building a snap package
description: How to build and release a snap package with codemagic.yaml
weight: 11
aliases:
  - '../yaml/building-a-snap-package'
---

## Setting up snap packaging

To set up snap packaging, create a `snapcraft.yaml` file with the necessary configurations according to [Snapcraft guide for Flutter](https://snapcraft.io/docs/flutter-applications) or follow the general [`snapcraft.yaml` guide](https://snapcraft.io/docs/creating-snapcraft-yaml).

Optionally, run the `snapcraft snap` command locally to ensure that everything is set up.

You should store the `snapcraft.yaml` file in the repository root. Another option is to store `snapcraft.yaml` in the `.snap` folder that is located in repository root.

{{<notebox>}}
See a sample application along with a `codemagic.yaml` configuration file that builds and releases a snap package in [GitHub](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/flutter-snapcraft-example/).
{{</notebox>}}

## Building snap packages

Include the `snapcraft snap` command in the `scripts` section of your `codemagic.yaml` file as in the example below. The output of this command is a `.snap` artifact. It can later be used for [publishing to the Snapcraft Snap Store](#publishing-snap-packages).

```yaml
workflows:
  snap-build:
    name: Snapcraft Build
    instance_type: linux
    environment:
        SNAPCRAFT_BUILD_ENVIRONMENT: host
    scripts:
      - name: Create a snap
        script: snapcraft snap --output flutter-codemagic-example.snap
    artifacts:
        - '**/*.snap'
```

Additionally, you may want to install the generated `.snap` package onto your machine for testing. The package will not be code signed unless you publish it to Snapcraft, so you would need to use the `--dangerous` flag to install the package without code signing:

    snap install your-package.snap --dangerous

In case you are packaging a **Flutter application**, be sure to set `SNAPCRAFT_BUILD_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable to `host`. It is required to avoid virtualization. Read more about virtualization options [here](https://flutter.dev/docs/deployment/linux). Additionally, Snapcraft manages all the dependencies according to `snapcraft.yaml` configuration. There is no need to include Flutter version in `codemagic.yaml`.

{{<notebox>}}
**Note**: Snap is only available on Linux instances. Make sure to have `instance_type: linux` or `instance_type: linux_x2` in your `codemagic.yaml`. See the build machine specification [here](../specs/versions-linux/).
{{</notebox>}}

## Publishing snap packages

Snap packages can be published to the [Snapcraft Snap Store](https://snapcraft.io/).

1. Generate your Snapcraft credentials file by running the following command locally.

```
snapcraft export-login snapcraft-login-credentials
```

  You will be asked to enter your Snapcraft account username and password.

2. Drag and drop the credentials file to the encryption interface in Codemagic. This is available via the lock icon next to the yaml editor in your app settings. Read more about encrypting sensitive info in Codemagic [here](../building/encrypting/). 
3. Add the encrypted value to `codemagic.yaml` as an environment variable with the name `SNAPCRAFT_LOGIN_CREDENTIALS`.

```yaml
SNAPCRAFT_LOGIN_CREDENTIALS: Encrypted(...)
```
4. In the `scripts` section, add steps to log in to Snapcraft via CLI, build the snap package and release it to the desired channel.

```yaml
scripts:
  - name: Authenticate
    script: |
      echo $SNAPCRAFT_LOGIN_CREDENTIALS | base64 --decode > /home/builder/snapcraft-login-credentials
      snapcraft login --with /home/builder/snapcraft-login-credentials
  - name: Create a snap
    script: snapcraft snap --output flutter-codemagic-example.snap
  - name: Upload and release
    script: snapcraft upload flutter-codemagic-example.snap --release stable
```

Commit message:

Refactor docs to remove reference to file UI encrypting (#398)
* Update video-resources.md

* Create base64-encode-decode.md

* Update encrypting.md

* Update base64-encode-decode.md

* Update signing-ios.md

* Update signing-ios.md

* Delete base64-encode-decode.md

* Update video-resources.md

* Update encrypting.md

* Update signing-ios.md

* Update building-a-snap-package.md

* Update building-a-snap-package.md

* Update google-play-api.md

* Update google-play-api.md

* Update signing-android.md

* Update build-versioning.md

* Update signing-macos.md

* Delete google_play_yaml_two.png

* Update content/building/encrypting.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/building/encrypting.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/building/encrypting.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/code-signing-yaml/signing-ios.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update encrypting.md

* Update content/building/encrypting.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

content/getting-started/building-a-snap-package.md, after:

---
title: Building a snap package
description: How to build and release a snap package with codemagic.yaml
weight: 11
aliases:
  - '../yaml/building-a-snap-package'
---

## Setting up snap packaging

To set up snap packaging, create a `snapcraft.yaml` file with the necessary configurations according to [Snapcraft guide for Flutter](https://snapcraft.io/docs/flutter-applications) or follow the general [`snapcraft.yaml` guide](https://snapcraft.io/docs/creating-snapcraft-yaml).

Optionally, run the `snapcraft snap` command locally to ensure that everything is set up.

You should store the `snapcraft.yaml` file in the repository root. Another option is to store `snapcraft.yaml` in the `.snap` folder that is located in repository root.

{{<notebox>}}
See a sample application along with a `codemagic.yaml` configuration file that builds and releases a snap package in [GitHub](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/flutter-snapcraft-example/).
{{</notebox>}}

## Building snap packages

Include the `snapcraft snap` command in the `scripts` section of your `codemagic.yaml` file as in the example below. The output of this command is a `.snap` artifact. It can later be used for [publishing to the Snapcraft Snap Store](#publishing-snap-packages).

```yaml
workflows:
  snap-build:
    name: Snapcraft Build
    instance_type: linux
    environment:
        SNAPCRAFT_BUILD_ENVIRONMENT: host
    scripts:
      - name: Create a snap
        script: snapcraft snap --output flutter-codemagic-example.snap
    artifacts:
        - '**/*.snap'
```

Additionally, you may want to install the generated `.snap` package onto your machine for testing. The package will not be code signed unless you publish it to Snapcraft, so you would need to use the `--dangerous` flag to install the package without code signing:

    snap install your-package.snap --dangerous

In case you are packaging a **Flutter application**, be sure to set `SNAPCRAFT_BUILD_ENVIRONMENT` environment variable to `host`. It is required to avoid virtualization. Read more about virtualization options [here](https://flutter.dev/docs/deployment/linux). Additionally, Snapcraft manages all the dependencies according to `snapcraft.yaml` configuration. There is no need to include Flutter version in `codemagic.yaml`.

{{<notebox>}}
**Note**: Snap is only available on Linux instances. Make sure to have `instance_type: linux` or `instance_type: linux_x2` in your `codemagic.yaml`. See the build machine specification [here](../specs/versions-linux/).
{{</notebox>}}

## Publishing snap packages

Snap packages can be published to the [Snapcraft Snap Store](https://snapcraft.io/).

1. Generate your Snapcraft credentials file by running the following command locally.

```
snapcraft export-login snapcraft-login-credentials
```

  You will be asked to enter your Snapcraft account username and password.

2. Base64 encode and encrypt the credentials file. Read more about encrypting sensitive info in Codemagic [here](../building/encrypting/). 
3. Add the encrypted value to `codemagic.yaml` as an environment variable with the name `SNAPCRAFT_LOGIN_CREDENTIALS`.

```yaml
SNAPCRAFT_LOGIN_CREDENTIALS: Encrypted(...)
```
4. In the `scripts` section, add steps to base64 decode the credentials file, log in to Snapcraft via CLI, build the snap package and release it to the desired channel.

```yaml
scripts:
  - name: Authenticate
    script: |
      echo $SNAPCRAFT_LOGIN_CREDENTIALS | base64 --decode > /home/builder/snapcraft-login-credentials
      snapcraft login --with /home/builder/snapcraft-login-credentials
  - name: Create a snap
    script: snapcraft snap --output flutter-codemagic-example.snap
  - name: Upload and release
    script: snapcraft upload flutter-codemagic-example.snap --release stable
```
