content/getting-started/building-a-react-native-app.md, before:

---
title: Building a React Native app
description: Building a React Native app with YAML.
weight: 8
aliases: 
  - '../yaml/building-a-react-native-app'
---

React Native is a cross-platform solution that allows you to build apps for both iOS and Android faster using a single language. When working with YAML, the basics are still the same, the build scripts are added to the `scripts` section in the [overall architecture](../getting-started/yaml#template).

## Android

Set up local properties

```yaml
- echo "sdk.dir=$HOME/programs/android-sdk-macosx" > "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/local.properties"
```

Building an Android application:

```yaml
- cd android && ./gradlew build
```

## iOS

{{<notebox>}}
Codemagic uses the [xcode-project](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/xcode-project/README.md#xcode-project) to prepare iOS application code signing properties for build.
{{</notebox>}}

Script for building an iOS application:

```yaml
- xcode-project build-ipa --workspace "ios/MyReact.xcworkspace" --scheme "MyReact"
```

{{<notebox>}}Read more about different schemes in [Apple documentation](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/dev0bee46f46).{{</notebox>}} 

## Testing, code signing and publishing

To test and publish a React Native app:

* The code for testing a React Native app also goes under `scripts`, before build commands. An example for testing a React Naive app can be found [here](../testing-yaml/testing/#react-native-unit-test).
* All iOS and Android applications need to be signed before release. See how to set up [iOS code signing](../code-signing-yaml/signing-ios) and [Android code signing](../code-signing-yaml/signing-android).
* All generated artifacts can be published to external services. The available integrations currently are email, Slack and Google Play. It is also possible to publish elsewhere with custom scripts (e.g. Firebase App Distribution). Script examples for all of them are available [here](../publishing-yaml/distribution/#publishing).

## iOS workflow example

The following example shows a workflow that can be used to publish your iOS app to App Store Connect.

```yaml
workflows:
  ios-workflow:
    name: iOS Workflow
    max_build_duration: 60
    instance_type: mac_pro
    environment:
      vars:
        XCODE_WORKSPACE: "YOUR_WORKSPACE_NAME.xcworkspace"  # YOUR WORKSPACE NAME HERE
        XCODE_SCHEME: "YOUR_SCHEME_NAME" # THE NAME OF YOUR SCHEME HERE
        FCI_CERTIFICATE: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED DISTRIBUTION CERTIFICATE HERE
        FCI_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED CERTIFICATE PASSWORD HERE
        FCI_PROVISIONING_PROFILE: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED PROVISIONING PROFILE HERE
      node: latest
      xcode: latest
      cocoapods: default
    triggering:
      events:
        - push
        - tag
        - pull_request
      branch_patterns:
        - pattern: develop
          include: true
          source: true
    scripts:
      - name: Install npm dependencies
        script: npm install
      - name: Install CocoaPods dependencies
        script: |
            cd ios 
            pod repo update
            pod install
      - name: Set up keychain to be used for codesigning using Codemagic CLI 'keychain' command
        script: keychain initialize
      - name: Set up Provisioning profiles from environment variables
        script: |
          PROFILES_HOME="$HOME/Library/MobileDevice/Provisioning Profiles"
          mkdir -p "$PROFILES_HOME"
          PROFILE_PATH="$(mktemp "$PROFILES_HOME"/$(uuidgen).mobileprovision)"
          echo ${FCI_PROVISIONING_PROFILE} | base64 --decode > "$PROFILE_PATH"
          echo "Saved provisioning profile $PROFILE_PATH"
      - name: Set up signing certificate
        script: |
          echo $FCI_CERTIFICATE | base64 --decode > /tmp/certificate.p12
          keychain add-certificates --certificate /tmp/certificate.p12 --certificate-password $FCI_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD
      - name: Increment build number
        script: cd ios && agvtool new-version -all $(($BUILD_NUMBER +1))
      - name: Set up code signing settings on Xcode project
        script: xcode-project use-profiles
      - name: Build ipa for distribution
        script: xcode-project build-ipa --workspace "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/ios/$XCODE_WORKSPACE" --scheme $XCODE_SCHEME
    artifacts:
      - build/ios/ipa/*.ipa
      - $HOME/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/**/Build/**/*.dSYM
    publishing:
      app_store_connect:
        apple_id: your_apple_id@example.com  # PUT YOUR APPLE ID HERE
        password: Encrypted(...) # THE ENCRYPTED APP-SPECIFIC PASSWORD GOES HERE
```

## Android workflow example

The following example shows how to set up a workflow that builds your app and publishes to a Google Play internal track.

```yaml
workflows:
  android-workflow:
    name: Android Workflow
    max_build_duration: 60
    instance_type: mac_pro
    environment:
      vars:
        FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH: /tmp/keystore.keystore
        FCI_KEYSTORE: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED KEYSTORE FILE HERE
        FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED PASSWORD FOR THE KEYSTORE FILE HERE
        FCI_KEY_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED KEYSTORE ALIAS PASSWORD HERE
        FCI_KEY_ALIAS: Encrypted(...) #PUT THE ENCRYPTED KEYSTORE ALIAS HERE
      node: latest
    triggering:
      events:
        - push
        - tag
        - pull_request
      branch_patterns:
        - pattern: release
          include: true
          source: true
    scripts:
      - name: Install npm dependencies
        script: npm install
      - name: Set up local properties
        script: echo "sdk.dir=$HOME/programs/android-sdk-macosx" > "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/local.properties"
      - name: Set up key.properties file for code signing
        script: |
          echo $FCI_KEYSTORE | base64 --decode > $FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH
          cat >> "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/key.properties" <<EOF
          storePassword=$FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD
          keyPassword=$FCI_KEY_PASSWORD
          keyAlias=$FCI_KEY_ALIAS
          storeFile=$FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH
          EOF
      - name: Build Android app
        script: cd android && ./gradlew assembleRelease
    artifacts:
      - android/app/build/outputs/**/**/*.apk
    publishing:
      google_play:
        credentials: Encrypted(...) # PUT YOUR ENCRYPTED GOOGLE PLAY JSON CREDENTIALS FILE HERE
        track: internal
```

{{<notebox>}}Note that you should incremenet the versionCode in `android/app/build.gradle` {{</notebox>}}

Incrementing the version code can be done as follows:

```gradle
    android {
        ...
        
        def appVersionCode = Integer.valueOf(System.env.BUILD_NUMBER ?: 1)
        defaultConfig {
            ...
            versionCode appVersionCode
            ...
        }
    }
```

Commit message:

Flutter UI vs. Yaml docs improvements (#273)
* Remove separator under title.

* Render description as a subtitle.

* Updated, added, or deleted descriptions for all docs. Drive by corrected punctuation and small issues.

* Hack to add space after subtitle when first content of markdown is a notebox.

* Add page description subtitle to search results

* Add warning boxes with links between flutter and yaml code signing pages

* Add warning boxes with links from flutter google play and app store connect publishing to yaml publishing

* Updated all occurrences of Flutter UI to Flutter workflow editor. Clarified usages of UI when appropriate.

content/getting-started/building-a-react-native-app.md, after:

---
title: Building a React Native app
description: How to build a React Native app with codemagic.yaml
weight: 8
aliases: 
  - '../yaml/building-a-react-native-app'
---

React Native is a cross-platform solution that allows you to build apps for both iOS and Android faster using a single language. When working with YAML, the basics are still the same, the build scripts are added to the `scripts` section in the [overall architecture](../getting-started/yaml#template).

## Android

Set up local properties

```yaml
- echo "sdk.dir=$HOME/programs/android-sdk-macosx" > "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/local.properties"
```

Building an Android application:

```yaml
- cd android && ./gradlew build
```

## iOS

{{<notebox>}}
Codemagic uses the [xcode-project](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/xcode-project/README.md#xcode-project) to prepare iOS application code signing properties for build.
{{</notebox>}}

Script for building an iOS application:

```yaml
- xcode-project build-ipa --workspace "ios/MyReact.xcworkspace" --scheme "MyReact"
```

{{<notebox>}}Read more about different schemes in [Apple documentation](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/dev0bee46f46).{{</notebox>}} 

## Testing, code signing and publishing

To test and publish a React Native app:

* The code for testing a React Native app also goes under `scripts`, before build commands. An example for testing a React Naive app can be found [here](../testing-yaml/testing/#react-native-unit-test).
* All iOS and Android applications need to be signed before release. See how to set up [iOS code signing](../code-signing-yaml/signing-ios) and [Android code signing](../code-signing-yaml/signing-android).
* All generated artifacts can be published to external services. The available integrations currently are email, Slack and Google Play. It is also possible to publish elsewhere with custom scripts (e.g. Firebase App Distribution). Script examples for all of them are available [here](../publishing-yaml/distribution/#publishing).

## iOS workflow example

The following example shows a workflow that can be used to publish your iOS app to App Store Connect.

```yaml
workflows:
  ios-workflow:
    name: iOS Workflow
    max_build_duration: 60
    instance_type: mac_pro
    environment:
      vars:
        XCODE_WORKSPACE: "YOUR_WORKSPACE_NAME.xcworkspace"  # YOUR WORKSPACE NAME HERE
        XCODE_SCHEME: "YOUR_SCHEME_NAME" # THE NAME OF YOUR SCHEME HERE
        FCI_CERTIFICATE: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED DISTRIBUTION CERTIFICATE HERE
        FCI_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED CERTIFICATE PASSWORD HERE
        FCI_PROVISIONING_PROFILE: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED PROVISIONING PROFILE HERE
      node: latest
      xcode: latest
      cocoapods: default
    triggering:
      events:
        - push
        - tag
        - pull_request
      branch_patterns:
        - pattern: develop
          include: true
          source: true
    scripts:
      - name: Install npm dependencies
        script: npm install
      - name: Install CocoaPods dependencies
        script: |
            cd ios 
            pod repo update
            pod install
      - name: Set up keychain to be used for codesigning using Codemagic CLI 'keychain' command
        script: keychain initialize
      - name: Set up Provisioning profiles from environment variables
        script: |
          PROFILES_HOME="$HOME/Library/MobileDevice/Provisioning Profiles"
          mkdir -p "$PROFILES_HOME"
          PROFILE_PATH="$(mktemp "$PROFILES_HOME"/$(uuidgen).mobileprovision)"
          echo ${FCI_PROVISIONING_PROFILE} | base64 --decode > "$PROFILE_PATH"
          echo "Saved provisioning profile $PROFILE_PATH"
      - name: Set up signing certificate
        script: |
          echo $FCI_CERTIFICATE | base64 --decode > /tmp/certificate.p12
          keychain add-certificates --certificate /tmp/certificate.p12 --certificate-password $FCI_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD
      - name: Increment build number
        script: cd ios && agvtool new-version -all $(($BUILD_NUMBER +1))
      - name: Set up code signing settings on Xcode project
        script: xcode-project use-profiles
      - name: Build ipa for distribution
        script: xcode-project build-ipa --workspace "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/ios/$XCODE_WORKSPACE" --scheme $XCODE_SCHEME
    artifacts:
      - build/ios/ipa/*.ipa
      - $HOME/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/**/Build/**/*.dSYM
    publishing:
      app_store_connect:
        apple_id: your_apple_id@example.com  # PUT YOUR APPLE ID HERE
        password: Encrypted(...) # THE ENCRYPTED APP-SPECIFIC PASSWORD GOES HERE
```

## Android workflow example

The following example shows how to set up a workflow that builds your app and publishes to a Google Play internal track.

```yaml
workflows:
  android-workflow:
    name: Android Workflow
    max_build_duration: 60
    instance_type: mac_pro
    environment:
      vars:
        FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH: /tmp/keystore.keystore
        FCI_KEYSTORE: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED KEYSTORE FILE HERE
        FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED PASSWORD FOR THE KEYSTORE FILE HERE
        FCI_KEY_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED KEYSTORE ALIAS PASSWORD HERE
        FCI_KEY_ALIAS: Encrypted(...) #PUT THE ENCRYPTED KEYSTORE ALIAS HERE
      node: latest
    triggering:
      events:
        - push
        - tag
        - pull_request
      branch_patterns:
        - pattern: release
          include: true
          source: true
    scripts:
      - name: Install npm dependencies
        script: npm install
      - name: Set up local properties
        script: echo "sdk.dir=$HOME/programs/android-sdk-macosx" > "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/local.properties"
      - name: Set up key.properties file for code signing
        script: |
          echo $FCI_KEYSTORE | base64 --decode > $FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH
          cat >> "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/key.properties" <<EOF
          storePassword=$FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD
          keyPassword=$FCI_KEY_PASSWORD
          keyAlias=$FCI_KEY_ALIAS
          storeFile=$FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH
          EOF
      - name: Build Android app
        script: cd android && ./gradlew assembleRelease
    artifacts:
      - android/app/build/outputs/**/**/*.apk
    publishing:
      google_play:
        credentials: Encrypted(...) # PUT YOUR ENCRYPTED GOOGLE PLAY JSON CREDENTIALS FILE HERE
        track: internal
```

{{<notebox>}}Note that you should incremenet the versionCode in `android/app/build.gradle` {{</notebox>}}

Incrementing the version code can be done as follows:

```gradle
    android {
        ...
        
        def appVersionCode = Integer.valueOf(System.env.BUILD_NUMBER ?: 1)
        defaultConfig {
            ...
            versionCode appVersionCode
            ...
        }
    }
```
