content/getting-started/building-a-native-android-app.md, before:

---
title: Building a native Android app
description: Building an Android app with YAML.
weight: 4
aliases:
  - '../yaml/building-a-native-android-app'
---

## Setting up an Android project

The apps you have available on Codemagic are listed on the Applications page. See how to add additional apps [here](./adding-apps-from-custom-sources).

1. On the Applications page, click **Set up build** next to the app you want to start building. 
2. Select **Android App** as the starter workflow.
3. Download the example configuration for Android App or copy it to clipboard.
4. Then edit the configuration file to adjust it to your project needs and commit it to the root of your repository.
    * For an overview about using `codemagic.yaml`, please refer [here](./yaml). 
    * Read more about adding configuration for [testing](../testing-yaml/testing), [code signing](../code-signing-yaml/signing-android) and [publishing](../publishing-yaml/distribution).
    * See the full Android workflow example [below](#android-workflow-example).
5. Back in app settings in Codemagic, scan for the `codemagic.yaml` file by selecting a **branch** to scan and clicking the **Check for configuration file** button at the top of the page. Note that you can have different configuration files in different branches.
6. If a `codemagic.yaml` file is found in that branch, you can click **Select workflow from codemagic.yaml** and select the **workflow** to build.
7. Finally, click **Start new build** to build the app.

{{<notebox>}}
**Tip**

Note that you need to set up a [webhook](../building/webhooks) for automatic build triggering. Click the **Create webhook** button on the right sidebar in app settings to add a webhook (not available for apps added via SSH/HTTP/HTTPS).

{{</notebox>}}

## Building an Android app

The necessary command for building native Android application goes under `scripts` in the [overall architecture](../getting-started/yaml/#template) in the `codemagic.yaml` file. For Android (built with gradle), the script looks like this:

```yaml
- ./gradlew build
```

## Testing, code signing and publishing an Android app

To test, code sign and publish an Android app:

* The code for testing an Android app also goes under `scripts`. A few examples of testing can be found [here](../testing-yaml/testing).
* All Android applications need to be signed before release, see how to do that [here](../code-signing-yaml/signing-android).
* All generated artifacts can be published to external services. The available integrations currently are email, Slack and Google Play. It is also possible to publish elsewhere with custom scripts (e.g. Firebase App Distribution). Script examples for all of them are available [here](../publishing-yaml/distribution/#publishing).

## Android workflow example

The following example shows how to set up a workflow that builds your app and publishes to a Google Play internal track.

```yaml
workflows:
  android-workflow:
    name: Android Workflow
    max_build_duration: 60
    instance_type: mac_mini
    environment:
      vars:
        FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH: /tmp/keystore.keystore
        FCI_KEYSTORE: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED KEYSTORE FILE HERE
        FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED PASSWORD FOR THE KEYSTORE FILE HERE
        FCI_KEY_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED KEYSTORE ALIAS PASSWORD HERE
        FCI_KEY_ALIAS: Encrypted(...) #PUT THE ENCRYPTED KEYSTORE USERNAME HERE
      node: latest
    triggering:
      events:
        - push
        - tag
        - pull_request
      branch_patterns:
        - pattern: release
          include: true
          source: true
    scripts:
      - name: Set up local properties
        script: echo "sdk.dir=$HOME/programs/android-sdk-macosx" > "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/local.properties"
      - name: Set up key.properties file for code signing
        script: |
          echo $FCI_KEYSTORE | base64 --decode > $FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH
          cat >> "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/key.properties" <<EOF
          storePassword=$FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD
          keyPassword=$FCI_KEY_PASSWORD
          keyAlias=$FCI_KEY_ALIAS
          storeFile=$FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH
          EOF
      - name: Build Android app
        script: ./gradlew assembleRelease
    artifacts:
      - app/build/outputs/**/**/*.apk
    publishing:
      google_play:
        credentials: Encrypted(...) # PUT YOUR ENCRYPTED GOOGLE PLAY JSON CREDENTIALS FILE HERE
        track: internal
```

{{<notebox>}}Note that you should incremenet the versionCode in `android/app/build.gradle`. {{</notebox>}}

Incrementing the version code can be done as follows:

```gradle
android {
    ...
    
    def appVersionCode = Integer.valueOf(System.env.BUILD_NUMBER ?: 0)
    defaultConfig {
        ...
        versionCode appVersionCode
        ...
    }
}
```

Commit message:

Flutter UI vs. Yaml docs improvements (#273)
* Remove separator under title.

* Render description as a subtitle.

* Updated, added, or deleted descriptions for all docs. Drive by corrected punctuation and small issues.

* Hack to add space after subtitle when first content of markdown is a notebox.

* Add page description subtitle to search results

* Add warning boxes with links between flutter and yaml code signing pages

* Add warning boxes with links from flutter google play and app store connect publishing to yaml publishing

* Updated all occurrences of Flutter UI to Flutter workflow editor. Clarified usages of UI when appropriate.

content/getting-started/building-a-native-android-app.md, after:

---
title: Building a native Android app
description: How to build an Android app with codemagic.yaml
weight: 4
aliases:
  - '../yaml/building-a-native-android-app'
---

## Setting up an Android project

The apps you have available on Codemagic are listed on the Applications page. See how to add additional apps [here](./adding-apps-from-custom-sources).

1. On the Applications page, click **Set up build** next to the app you want to start building. 
2. Select **Android App** as the starter workflow.
3. Download the example configuration for Android App or copy it to clipboard.
4. Then edit the configuration file to adjust it to your project needs and commit it to the root of your repository.
    * For an overview about using `codemagic.yaml`, please refer [here](./yaml). 
    * Read more about adding configuration for [testing](../testing-yaml/testing), [code signing](../code-signing-yaml/signing-android) and [publishing](../publishing-yaml/distribution).
    * See the full Android workflow example [below](#android-workflow-example).
5. Back in app settings in Codemagic, scan for the `codemagic.yaml` file by selecting a **branch** to scan and clicking the **Check for configuration file** button at the top of the page. Note that you can have different configuration files in different branches.
6. If a `codemagic.yaml` file is found in that branch, you can click **Select workflow from codemagic.yaml** and select the **workflow** to build.
7. Finally, click **Start new build** to build the app.

{{<notebox>}}
**Tip**

Note that you need to set up a [webhook](../building/webhooks) for automatic build triggering. Click the **Create webhook** button on the right sidebar in app settings to add a webhook (not available for apps added via SSH/HTTP/HTTPS).

{{</notebox>}}

## Building an Android app

The necessary command for building native Android application goes under `scripts` in the [overall architecture](../getting-started/yaml/#template) in the `codemagic.yaml` file. For Android (built with gradle), the script looks like this:

```yaml
- ./gradlew build
```

## Testing, code signing and publishing an Android app

To test, code sign and publish an Android app:

* The code for testing an Android app also goes under `scripts`. A few examples of testing can be found [here](../testing-yaml/testing).
* All Android applications need to be signed before release, see how to do that [here](../code-signing-yaml/signing-android).
* All generated artifacts can be published to external services. The available integrations currently are email, Slack and Google Play. It is also possible to publish elsewhere with custom scripts (e.g. Firebase App Distribution). Script examples for all of them are available [here](../publishing-yaml/distribution/#publishing).

## Android workflow example

The following example shows how to set up a workflow that builds your app and publishes to a Google Play internal track.

```yaml
workflows:
  android-workflow:
    name: Android Workflow
    max_build_duration: 60
    instance_type: mac_mini
    environment:
      vars:
        FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH: /tmp/keystore.keystore
        FCI_KEYSTORE: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED KEYSTORE FILE HERE
        FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED PASSWORD FOR THE KEYSTORE FILE HERE
        FCI_KEY_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...) # PUT THE ENCRYPTED KEYSTORE ALIAS PASSWORD HERE
        FCI_KEY_ALIAS: Encrypted(...) #PUT THE ENCRYPTED KEYSTORE USERNAME HERE
      node: latest
    triggering:
      events:
        - push
        - tag
        - pull_request
      branch_patterns:
        - pattern: release
          include: true
          source: true
    scripts:
      - name: Set up local properties
        script: echo "sdk.dir=$HOME/programs/android-sdk-macosx" > "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/local.properties"
      - name: Set up key.properties file for code signing
        script: |
          echo $FCI_KEYSTORE | base64 --decode > $FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH
          cat >> "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/key.properties" <<EOF
          storePassword=$FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD
          keyPassword=$FCI_KEY_PASSWORD
          keyAlias=$FCI_KEY_ALIAS
          storeFile=$FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH
          EOF
      - name: Build Android app
        script: ./gradlew assembleRelease
    artifacts:
      - app/build/outputs/**/**/*.apk
    publishing:
      google_play:
        credentials: Encrypted(...) # PUT YOUR ENCRYPTED GOOGLE PLAY JSON CREDENTIALS FILE HERE
        track: internal
```

{{<notebox>}}Note that you should incremenet the versionCode in `android/app/build.gradle`. {{</notebox>}}

Incrementing the version code can be done as follows:

```gradle
android {
    ...
    
    def appVersionCode = Integer.valueOf(System.env.BUILD_NUMBER ?: 0)
    defaultConfig {
        ...
        versionCode appVersionCode
        ...
    }
}
```
