content/publishing/publishing-to-google-play.md, before:

---
description: Deploy the Flutter app to Google Play
title: Google Play
weight: 2
---

Codemagic enables you to automatically publish your app to the **internal**, **alpha**, **beta** and **production** tracks on Google Play. To do so, you must first [set up Android code signing](../code-signing/android-code-signing/ 'Android code signing') and then configure publishing to Google Play.

## Requirements

You will need a **service account in Google Play Console** to obtain the **JSON credentials file**. See how to do that [here](../knowledge-base/google-play-api/). In addition, you must build the app in **release mode** and set up **Android code signing**.

Before releasing the app to Google Play, make sure that it meets the [Google Play's best practices guidelines](https://developer.android.com/distribute/best-practices/launch/).

{{<notebox>}} Note that if you haven't published your app to Google Play yet, you must create an entry for your app in Google Play Console and manually upload the very first version of the app before you can automate publishing using Codemagic. In addition, each uploaded binary must have a different version, see how to automatically [increment build version](../building/build-versioning/ 'Build versioning') on Codemagic. {{</notebox>}}

## Setting up publishing to Google Play on Codemagic

Once you configure publishing to Google Play, Codemagic will automatically distribute the app to Google Play every time you build the workflow.

{{<notebox>}}
The very first version of the app must be added to Google Play manually. You can download the **app_release.apk** from the build artifacts.
{{</notebox>}}

1. Navigate to the Publish section in app settings.
2. Click **Google Play** to expand the options.
3. Upload your credentials JSON file.
4. Select a **track** for publishing.
   - Internal --- publish for internal testing and QA
   - Alpha --- publish for testing with a small group of trusted users
   - Beta --- publish for testing to a wider set of users
   - Production --- release the app to production
5. If your application supports [in-app updates](https://developer.android.com/guide/playcore/in-app-updates), set the desired priority. If not, select **Default**.
6. In case you want to release a [staged version](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/6346149?hl=en) of your application, which reaches only a fraction of users, set **Rollout fraction** to a value between 0 and 1. To release to everyone, leave the value empty.
7. If you want to publish the .apk even when one or more tests fail, mark the **Publish even if tests fail** checkbox.
8. Select **Enable Google Play publishing** at the top of the section to enable publishing.

Commit message:

Flutter UI vs. Yaml docs improvements (#273)
* Remove separator under title.

* Render description as a subtitle.

* Updated, added, or deleted descriptions for all docs. Drive by corrected punctuation and small issues.

* Hack to add space after subtitle when first content of markdown is a notebox.

* Add page description subtitle to search results

* Add warning boxes with links between flutter and yaml code signing pages

* Add warning boxes with links from flutter google play and app store connect publishing to yaml publishing

* Updated all occurrences of Flutter UI to Flutter workflow editor. Clarified usages of UI when appropriate.

content/publishing/publishing-to-google-play.md, after:

---
description: Deploy a Flutter app to Google Play using the Flutter workflow editor
title: Google Play
weight: 2
---

Codemagic enables you to automatically publish your app to the **internal**, **alpha**, **beta** and **production** tracks on Google Play. To do so, you must first [set up Android code signing](../code-signing/android-code-signing/ 'Android code signing') and then configure publishing to Google Play.

{{<notebox>}}
This guide only applies to workflows configured with the **Flutter workflow editor**. If your workflow is configured with **codemagic.yaml** please go to [Publishing to Google Play using codemagic.yaml](../publishing-yaml/distribution/#google-play).
{{</notebox>}}

## Requirements

You will need a **service account in Google Play Console** to obtain the **JSON credentials file**. See how to do that [here](../knowledge-base/google-play-api/). In addition, you must build the app in **release mode** and set up **Android code signing**.

Before releasing the app to Google Play, make sure that it meets the [Google Play's best practices guidelines](https://developer.android.com/distribute/best-practices/launch/).

{{<notebox>}} Note that if you haven't published your app to Google Play yet, you must create an entry for your app in Google Play Console and manually upload the very first version of the app before you can automate publishing using Codemagic. In addition, each uploaded binary must have a different version, see how to automatically [increment build version](../building/build-versioning/ 'Build versioning') on Codemagic. {{</notebox>}}

## Setting up publishing to Google Play on Codemagic

Once you configure publishing to Google Play, Codemagic will automatically distribute the app to Google Play every time you build the workflow.

{{<notebox>}}
The very first version of the app must be added to Google Play manually. You can download the **app_release.apk** from the build artifacts.
{{</notebox>}}

1. Navigate to the Publish section in app settings.
2. Click **Google Play** to expand the options.
3. Upload your credentials JSON file.
4. Select a **track** for publishing.
   - Internal --- publish for internal testing and QA
   - Alpha --- publish for testing with a small group of trusted users
   - Beta --- publish for testing to a wider set of users
   - Production --- release the app to production
5. If your application supports [in-app updates](https://developer.android.com/guide/playcore/in-app-updates), set the desired priority. If not, select **Default**.
6. In case you want to release a [staged version](https://support.google.com/googleplay/android-developer/answer/6346149?hl=en) of your application, which reaches only a fraction of users, set **Rollout fraction** to a value between 0 and 1. To release to everyone, leave the value empty.
7. If you want to publish the .apk even when one or more tests fail, mark the **Publish even if tests fail** checkbox.
8. Select **Enable Google Play publishing** at the top of the section to enable publishing.
