content/code-signing-yaml/signing-ios.md, before:

---
title: Signing iOS apps
description: How to set up iOS code signing in codemagic.yaml
weight: 1
aliases: '../code-signing-yaml/signing'
---

All iOS applications have to be digitally signed before they can be installed on real devices or made available to the public.

{{<notebox>}}
This guide only applies to workflows configured with the **codemagic.yaml**. If your workflow is configured with **Flutter workflow editor** please go to [Signing iOS apps using the Flutter workflow editor](../code-signing/ios-code-signing).
{{</notebox>}}

## Prerequisites

Signing iOS applications requires [Apple Developer Program](https://developer.apple.com/programs/enroll/) membership. You can upload your signing certificate and distribution profile to Codemagic to manage code signing yourself or use the automatic code signing option where Codemagic takes care of code signing and signing files management on your behalf. Read more about the two options below.

{{<notebox>}}
Under the hood, we use [Codemagic CLI tools](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools) to perform iOS code signing ⏤ these tools are open source and can also be [used locally](../building/running-locally/) or in other environments. More specifically, we use the [xcode-project utility](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/xcode-project/README.md) for preparing the code signing properties for the build, the [keychain utility](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/keychain/README.md) for managing macOS keychains and certificates, and the [app-store-connect utility](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/app-store-connect/README.md) for creating and downloading code signing certificates and provisioning profiles. The latter makes use of the App Store Connect API for authenticating with Apple Developer Portal.
{{</notebox>}}

## Automatic code signing

{{< youtube 2kLi7Fe7q-0 >}}

In order to use automatic code signing and have Codemagic manage signing certificates and provisioning profiles on your behalf, you need to configure API access to App Store Connect.

### Creating the App Store Connect API key

It is recommended to create a dedicated App Store Connect API key for Codemagic in [App Store Connect](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/access/api). To do so:

1. Log in to App Store Connect and navigate to **Users and Access > Keys**.
2. Click on the + sign to generate a new API key.
3. Enter the name for the key and select an access level. We recommend choosing either `Developer` or `App Manager`, read more about Apple Developer Program role permissions [here](https://help.apple.com/app-store-connect/#/deve5f9a89d7).
4. Click **Generate**.
5. As soon as the key is generated, you can see it added in the list of active keys. Click **Download API Key** to save the private key for later. Note that the key can only be downloaded once.

{{<notebox >}} 
Take note of the **Issuer ID** above the table of active keys as well as the **Key ID** of the generated key as these will be required when setting up the Apple Developer Portal integration in the Codemagic UI.
{{</notebox>}}

### Saving the API key to environment variables

Save the API key and the related information as [environment](../getting-started/yaml#environment) variables. Make sure to [encrypt](../building/encrypting/#encrypting-sensitive-data) the values of the variables before adding them to the configuration file.

```yaml
environment:
  vars:
    APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID: Encrypted(...)
    APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER: Encrypted(...)
    APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY: Encrypted(...)
    CERTIFICATE_PRIVATE_KEY: Encrypted(...)
```

- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER`

  In **App Store Connect > Users and Access > Keys**, this is the **Key ID** of the key.

- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID`

  In **App Store Connect > Users and Access > Keys**, this is the **Issuer ID** displayed above the table of active keys.

- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY`

  This is the private API key downloaded from App Store Connect. Note that when encrypting files via the UI, they will be base64 encoded and would have to be decoded during the build. Alternatively, you can encrypt the **contents** of the file and save the encrypted value to the environment variable.

- `CERTIFICATE_PRIVATE_KEY`

  A RSA 2048 bit private key to be included in the [signing certificate](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/dev1c7c2c67d) that Codemagic creates. You can use an existing key or create a new 2048 bit RSA key by running the following command in your terminal. 
  
  Similarly to the above note that when encrypting files via the UI, they will be base64 encoded and would have to be decoded during the build. Alternatively, you can encrypt the **contents** of the file and save the encrypted value to the environment variable.

```bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048 -m PEM -f ~/Desktop/codemagic_private_key -q -N ""
```

{{<notebox>}}
Alternatively, each property can be specified in the `scripts` section of the YAML file as a command argument to programs with dedicated flags. See the details [here](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/app-store-connect/fetch-signing-files.md#--issuer-idissuer_id). In that case, the environment variables will be fallbacks for missing values in scripts.
{{</notebox>}}

### Specifying code signing configuration

To code sign the app, add the following commands in the [`scripts`](../getting-started/yaml#scripts) section of the configuration file, after all the dependencies are installed, right before the build commands. 

```yaml
scripts:
  ... your dependencies installation
  - name: Set up keychain to be used for code signing using Codemagic CLI 'keychain' command
    script: keychain initialize
  - name: Fetch signing files
    script: |
      # You can allow creating resources if existing are not found with `--create` flag
      app-store-connect fetch-signing-files "io.codemagic.app" \
        --type IOS_APP_DEVELOPMENT \
        --create
  - name: Set up signing certificate
    script: keychain add-certificates
  - name: Set up code signing settings on Xcode project
    script: xcode-project use-profiles
  ... your build commands
```

Instead of specifying the exact bundle-id, you can use `"$(xcode-project detect-bundle-id)"`.

Based on the specified bundle ID and [provisioning profile type](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/app-store-connect/fetch-signing-files.md#--typeios_app_adhoc--ios_app_development--ios_app_inhouse--ios_app_store--mac_app_development--mac_app_direct--mac_app_store--mac_catalyst_app_development--mac_catalyst_app_direct--mac_catalyst_app_store--tvos_app_adhoc--tvos_app_development--tvos_app_inhouse--tvos_app_store), Codemagic will fetch or create the relevant provisioning profile and certificate to code sign the build.

## Manual code signing

In order to use manual code signing, [encrypt](../building/encrypting/#encrypting-sensitive-data) your **signing certificate**, the **certificate password** (if the certificate is password-protected) and the **provisioning profile**, and set the encrypted values to the following environment variables. Note that when encrypting files via the UI, they will be base64 encoded and would have to be decoded during the build.

```yaml
environment:
  vars:
    FCI_CERTIFICATE: Encrypted(...)
    FCI_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...)
    FCI_PROVISIONING_PROFILE: Encrypted(...)
```

Then add the code signing configuration and the commands to code sign the build in the scripts section, after all the dependencies are installed, right before the build commands.

```yaml
scripts:
  ... your dependencies installation
  - name: Set up keychain to be used for code signing using Codemagic CLI 'keychain' command
    script: keychain initialize
  - name: Set up Provisioning profiles from environment variables
    script: |
      PROFILES_HOME="$HOME/Library/MobileDevice/Provisioning Profiles"
      mkdir -p "$PROFILES_HOME"
      PROFILE_PATH="$(mktemp "$PROFILES_HOME"/$(uuidgen).mobileprovision)"
      echo ${FCI_PROVISIONING_PROFILE} | base64 --decode > "$PROFILE_PATH"
      echo "Saved provisioning profile $PROFILE_PATH"
  - name: Set up signing certificate
    script: |
      echo $FCI_CERTIFICATE | base64 --decode > /tmp/certificate.p12
      if [ -z ${FCI_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD+x} ]; then
        # when using a certificate that is not password-protected
        keychain add-certificates --certificate /tmp/certificate.p12
      else
        # when using a password-protected certificate
        keychain add-certificates --certificate /tmp/certificate.p12 --certificate-password $FCI_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD
      fi
  - name: Set up code signing settings on Xcode project
    script: xcode-project use-profiles
  ... your build commands
```

Commit message:

Refactor docs to remove reference to file UI encrypting (#398)
* Update video-resources.md

* Create base64-encode-decode.md

* Update encrypting.md

* Update base64-encode-decode.md

* Update signing-ios.md

* Update signing-ios.md

* Delete base64-encode-decode.md

* Update video-resources.md

* Update encrypting.md

* Update signing-ios.md

* Update building-a-snap-package.md

* Update building-a-snap-package.md

* Update google-play-api.md

* Update google-play-api.md

* Update signing-android.md

* Update build-versioning.md

* Update signing-macos.md

* Delete google_play_yaml_two.png

* Update content/building/encrypting.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/building/encrypting.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/building/encrypting.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/code-signing-yaml/signing-ios.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update encrypting.md

* Update content/building/encrypting.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

content/code-signing-yaml/signing-ios.md, after:

---
title: Signing iOS apps
description: How to set up iOS code signing in codemagic.yaml
weight: 1
aliases: '../code-signing-yaml/signing'
---

All iOS applications have to be digitally signed before they can be installed on real devices or made available to the public.

{{<notebox>}}
This guide only applies to workflows configured with the **codemagic.yaml**. If your workflow is configured with **Flutter workflow editor** please go to [Signing iOS apps using the Flutter workflow editor](../code-signing/ios-code-signing).
{{</notebox>}}

## Prerequisites

Signing iOS applications requires [Apple Developer Program](https://developer.apple.com/programs/enroll/) membership. You can upload your signing certificate and distribution profile to Codemagic to manage code signing yourself or use the automatic code signing option where Codemagic takes care of code signing and signing files management on your behalf. Read more about the two options below.

{{<notebox>}}
Under the hood, we use [Codemagic CLI tools](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools) to perform iOS code signing ⏤ these tools are open source and can also be [used locally](../building/running-locally/) or in other environments. More specifically, we use the [xcode-project utility](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/xcode-project/README.md) for preparing the code signing properties for the build, the [keychain utility](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/keychain/README.md) for managing macOS keychains and certificates, and the [app-store-connect utility](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/app-store-connect/README.md) for creating and downloading code signing certificates and provisioning profiles. The latter makes use of the App Store Connect API for authenticating with Apple Developer Portal.
{{</notebox>}}

## Automatic code signing

{{< youtube 2kLi7Fe7q-0 >}}

In order to use automatic code signing and have Codemagic manage signing certificates and provisioning profiles on your behalf, you need to configure API access to App Store Connect.

### Creating the App Store Connect API key

It is recommended to create a dedicated App Store Connect API key for Codemagic in [App Store Connect](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/access/api). To do so:

1. Log in to App Store Connect and navigate to **Users and Access > Keys**.
2. Click on the + sign to generate a new API key.
3. Enter the name for the key and select an access level. We recommend choosing either `Developer` or `App Manager`, read more about Apple Developer Program role permissions [here](https://help.apple.com/app-store-connect/#/deve5f9a89d7).
4. Click **Generate**.
5. As soon as the key is generated, you can see it added in the list of active keys. Click **Download API Key** to save the private key for later. Note that the key can only be downloaded once.

{{<notebox >}} 
Take note of the **Issuer ID** above the table of active keys as well as the **Key ID** of the generated key as these will be required when setting up the Apple Developer Portal integration in the Codemagic UI.
{{</notebox>}}

### Saving the API key to environment variables

Save the API key and the related information as [environment](../getting-started/yaml#environment) variables. Make sure to [encrypt](../building/encrypting/#encrypting-sensitive-data) the values of the variables before adding them to the configuration file.

```yaml
environment:
  vars:
    APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID: Encrypted(...)
    APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER: Encrypted(...)
    APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY: Encrypted(...)
    CERTIFICATE_PRIVATE_KEY: Encrypted(...)
```

- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER`

  In **App Store Connect > Users and Access > Keys**, this is the **Key ID** of the key.

- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID`

  In **App Store Connect > Users and Access > Keys**, this is the **Issuer ID** displayed above the table of active keys.

- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY`

  This is the private API key downloaded from App Store Connect. Encrypt the **contents** of the file and save the encrypted value to the environment variable.

- `CERTIFICATE_PRIVATE_KEY`

  A RSA 2048 bit private key to be included in the [signing certificate](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/dev1c7c2c67d) that Codemagic creates. You can use an existing key or create a new 2048 bit RSA key by running the command below in your terminal. Note that you should encrypt the **contents** of the file and save the encrypted value to the environment variable. 

```bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048 -m PEM -f ~/Desktop/codemagic_private_key -q -N ""
```

{{<notebox>}}
Alternatively, each property can be specified in the `scripts` section of the YAML file as a command argument to programs with dedicated flags. See the details [here](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/app-store-connect/fetch-signing-files.md#--issuer-idissuer_id). In that case, the environment variables will be fallbacks for missing values in scripts.
{{</notebox>}}

### Specifying code signing configuration

To code sign the app, add the following commands in the [`scripts`](../getting-started/yaml#scripts) section of the configuration file, after all the dependencies are installed, right before the build commands. 

```yaml
scripts:
  ... your dependencies installation
  - name: Set up keychain to be used for code signing using Codemagic CLI 'keychain' command
    script: keychain initialize
  - name: Fetch signing files
    script: |
      # You can allow creating resources if existing are not found with `--create` flag
      app-store-connect fetch-signing-files "io.codemagic.app" \
        --type IOS_APP_DEVELOPMENT \
        --create
  - name: Set up signing certificate
    script: keychain add-certificates
  - name: Set up code signing settings on Xcode project
    script: xcode-project use-profiles
  ... your build commands
```

Instead of specifying the exact bundle-id, you can use `"$(xcode-project detect-bundle-id)"`.

Based on the specified bundle ID and [provisioning profile type](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/app-store-connect/fetch-signing-files.md#--typeios_app_adhoc--ios_app_development--ios_app_inhouse--ios_app_store--mac_app_development--mac_app_direct--mac_app_store--mac_catalyst_app_development--mac_catalyst_app_direct--mac_catalyst_app_store--tvos_app_adhoc--tvos_app_development--tvos_app_inhouse--tvos_app_store), Codemagic will fetch or create the relevant provisioning profile and certificate to code sign the build.

## Manual code signing

In order to use manual code signing, [encrypt](../building/encrypting/#encrypting-sensitive-data) your **signing certificate**, the **certificate password** (if the certificate is password-protected) and the **provisioning profile**, and set the encrypted values to the following environment variables. Note that when encrypting files, you will have to locally base64 encode them and then decode during the build.

```yaml
environment:
  vars:
    FCI_CERTIFICATE: Encrypted(...)
    FCI_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...)
    FCI_PROVISIONING_PROFILE: Encrypted(...)
```

Then add the code signing configuration and the commands to code sign the build in the scripts section, after all the dependencies are installed, right before the build commands.

```yaml
scripts:
  ... your dependencies installation
  - name: Set up keychain to be used for code signing using Codemagic CLI 'keychain' command
    script: keychain initialize
  - name: Set up Provisioning profiles from environment variables
    script: |
      PROFILES_HOME="$HOME/Library/MobileDevice/Provisioning Profiles"
      mkdir -p "$PROFILES_HOME"
      PROFILE_PATH="$(mktemp "$PROFILES_HOME"/$(uuidgen).mobileprovision)"
      echo ${FCI_PROVISIONING_PROFILE} | base64 --decode > "$PROFILE_PATH"
      echo "Saved provisioning profile $PROFILE_PATH"
  - name: Set up signing certificate
    script: |
      echo $FCI_CERTIFICATE | base64 --decode > /tmp/certificate.p12
      if [ -z ${FCI_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD+x} ]; then
        # when using a certificate that is not password-protected
        keychain add-certificates --certificate /tmp/certificate.p12
      else
        # when using a password-protected certificate
        keychain add-certificates --certificate /tmp/certificate.p12 --certificate-password $FCI_CERTIFICATE_PASSWORD
      fi
  - name: Set up code signing settings on Xcode project
    script: xcode-project use-profiles
  ... your build commands
```
