content/integrations/fastlane-integration.md, before:

---
title: Fastlane integration
description: How to use Fastlane in codemagic.yaml
weight: 4
---

**Fastlane** is an open source platform aimed at simplifying Android and iOS deployment. If your development team uses Fastlane, it can be used as part of your CI/CD pipeline to build and deploy your applications. Fastlane is preinstalled on the Codemagic build servers.

## Configuring Fastlane in Codemagic

Six **environment variables**  need to be added to your workflow for Fastlane integration: 

- `MATCH_PASSWORD` - the password used to encrypt/decrypt the repository used to store your distrbution certificates and provisioning profiles.
- `MATCH_KEYCHAIN` - an arbitrary name to use for the keychain on the build server, e.g "codemagic_keychain"
- `MATCH_SSH_KEY` - an SSH private key used for cloning the Match repository that contains your distrbution certificates and provisioning profiles. The public key should be added to your Github account. See [here](https://docs.codemagic.io/configuration/access-private-git-submodules/) for more information about accessing Git dependencies with SSH keys.
- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY` - the App Store Connect API key. Copy the entire contents of the .p8 file and paste into the environment variable value field.
- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER` - the key identifier of your App Store Connect API key.
- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID` - the issuer of your App Store Connect API key.

Environment variables can be added in the Codemagic web app using the 'Environment variables' tab. You can then import your variable groups into your codemagic.yaml. For example, if you named your variable group 'fastlane', you would import it as follows:

```
workflows:
  workflow-name:
    environment:
      groups:
        - fastlane
```

For further information about using variable groups, please click [here](https://docs.codemagic.io/variables/environment-variable-groups/).

## Cocoapods

If you are using dependencies from Cocoapods, it might be necessary to include the "cocoapods" gem in your Gemfile to prevent scope conflict issues. 

```
gem "fastlane"
gem "cocoapods"
```

## Running your Fastlane lane

In the codemagic.yaml you should install your depenpendencies with `bundle install` and then execute the Fastlane lane with `bundle exec fastlane <lane_name>` as follows:

```
      scripts:
        - bundle install
        - bundle exec fastlane beta
```

If you need to use a specific version of bundler as defined in the Gemfile.lock file, you should install it with `gem install bundler:<version>` as follows:

```
      scripts:
        - gem install bundler:2.2.27
        - bundle install
        - bundle exec fastlane beta
       
```
## Sample project

A sample project that shows how to configure Fastlane is available [here](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/codemagic-sample-projects/tree/main/integrations/fastlane-integration-demo-project).

Please refer to the **readme.md**, **Fastfile** and **codemagic.yaml** in the sample project for configuration instructions for your project.

Commit message:

Update Fastlane integration docs
added info to make sure to secure the variable. Otherwise it would have seemed that you paste the value and store it as plain text.

content/integrations/fastlane-integration.md, after:

---
title: Fastlane integration
description: How to use Fastlane in codemagic.yaml
weight: 4
---

**Fastlane** is an open source platform aimed at simplifying Android and iOS deployment. If your development team uses Fastlane, it can be used as part of your CI/CD pipeline to build and deploy your applications. Fastlane is preinstalled on the Codemagic build servers.

## Configuring Fastlane in Codemagic

Six **environment variables**  need to be added to your workflow for Fastlane integration: 

- `MATCH_PASSWORD` - the password used to encrypt/decrypt the repository used to store your distrbution certificates and provisioning profiles.
- `MATCH_KEYCHAIN` - an arbitrary name to use for the keychain on the build server, e.g "codemagic_keychain"
- `MATCH_SSH_KEY` - an SSH private key used for cloning the Match repository that contains your distrbution certificates and provisioning profiles. The public key should be added to your Github account. See [here](https://docs.codemagic.io/configuration/access-private-git-submodules/) for more information about accessing Git dependencies with SSH keys.
- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY` - the App Store Connect API key. Copy the entire contents of the .p8 file and paste into the environment variable value field. Make sure to mark it secure in order to encrypt the value. 
- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER` - the key identifier of your App Store Connect API key.
- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID` - the issuer of your App Store Connect API key.

Environment variables can be added in the Codemagic web app using the 'Environment variables' tab. You can then import your variable groups into your codemagic.yaml. For example, if you named your variable group 'fastlane', you would import it as follows:

```
workflows:
  workflow-name:
    environment:
      groups:
        - fastlane
```

For further information about using variable groups, please click [here](https://docs.codemagic.io/variables/environment-variable-groups/).

## Cocoapods

If you are using dependencies from Cocoapods, it might be necessary to include the "cocoapods" gem in your Gemfile to prevent scope conflict issues. 

```
gem "fastlane"
gem "cocoapods"
```

## Running your Fastlane lane

In the codemagic.yaml you should install your depenpendencies with `bundle install` and then execute the Fastlane lane with `bundle exec fastlane <lane_name>` as follows:

```
      scripts:
        - bundle install
        - bundle exec fastlane beta
```

If you need to use a specific version of bundler as defined in the Gemfile.lock file, you should install it with `gem install bundler:<version>` as follows:

```
      scripts:
        - gem install bundler:2.2.27
        - bundle install
        - bundle exec fastlane beta
       
```
## Sample project

A sample project that shows how to configure Fastlane is available [here](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/codemagic-sample-projects/tree/main/integrations/fastlane-integration-demo-project).

Please refer to the **readme.md**, **Fastfile** and **codemagic.yaml** in the sample project for configuration instructions for your project.
