content/yaml-basic-configuration/using-environment-variables.md, before:

---
description: How to use environment variables in scripts in codemagic.yaml
title: Using environment variables with codemagic.yaml
linkTitle: Using environment variables
weight: 3
aliases:
  - /variables/using-environment-variables
---

To access a variable during build time, add the `$` symbol in front of its name. For example, you can access the value of `API_TOKEN` variable by referencing it as `$API_TOKEN`.

{{<notebox>}}
**Note:** It is required to use quotation marks with multi-line variables when you are referencing them in custom scripts.
{{</notebox>}}


## Setting environment variables at build time and accessing them across shell scripts

By default, if you define an environment variable inside your script, you can only use it within that particular script itself. However, you can make an environment variable available to any subsequent step of your workflow by writing it to the `CM_ENV` environment file.

Specifically, you can do this by writing a `"KEY=value"` pair to the `CM_ENV` environment file. `CM_ENV` can contain multiple environment variables separated by newlines.

The following commands show how to write variables to the `CM_ENV` file, depending on the `instance type` of the build machine you are using:

{{< tabpane >}}

{{< tab header="macOS" >}}
{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
  scripts:
    - name: Save variable to ENV file
      script: | 
        echo "KEY=value" >> $CM_ENV
{{< /highlight >}}
{{<markdown>}}
You can then reference the variable in subsequent parts of your workflow by using `$KEY`.
{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="Linux" >}}
{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
  scripts:
    - name: Save variable to ENV file
      script: | 
        echo "KEY=value" >> $CM_ENV
{{< /highlight >}}
{{<markdown>}}
You can then reference the variable in subsequent parts of your workflow by using `$KEY`.
{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="Windows" >}}
{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
  scripts:
    - name: Save variable to ENV file
      script: | 
        Add-Content -Path $env:CM_ENV -Value "KEY=value"
{{< /highlight >}}
{{<markdown>}}
You can then reference the variable in subsequent parts of your workflow by using `$env:KEY`.
{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabpane >}}


#### Setting a multiline environment variable

To add a multiline environment variable, you need to use `<<` instead of an `=` to mark the end of the key in the key-value pair. In addition, set a delimiter to mark the start and the end of the variable. 

In the following example, the `DELIMITER` keyword can be replaced by any word of your choice, however, make sure that the delimiter at the beginning and at the end match.

{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
  scripts:
    - name: Save variable to ENV file
      script: | 
        echo 'MULTILINE_VAR<<DELIMITER' >> $CM_ENV
        echo 'line_one\nline_two' >> $CM_ENV
        echo 'DELIMITER' >> $CM_ENV
{{< /highlight >}}


Note that the example is specific to Linux and macOS machines but the same principles apply when building on Windows.



## Accessing environment variables from apps

Environment variables can also be accessed from within your apps. One of the great advantages is that you are able to use sensitive data such as API keys without having to store them in your repository.

The following examples show how to place your Google Maps API key into an Android or iOS application from an environment variable.

{{< tabpane >}}

{{< tab header="Android" >}}
{{<markdown>}}

1. Add your key as an environment variable with the name `MAPS_API_KEY`
2. Reference the environment variable in the `build.gradle`
{{< highlight Groovy "style=paraiso-dark">}}
defaultConfig {
    // Other values set here
    resValue "string", "maps_api_key", "$System.env.MAPS_API_KEY"
}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{</markdown>}}

3. Reference the value from `build.gradle` in the `AndroidManifest.xml`

{{< highlight xml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
<meta-data
    android:name="com.google.android.geo.API_KEY"
    android:value="@string/maps_api_key"
/>
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="Flutter" >}}
{{<markdown>}}

With Flutter the approach is slightly different. You will have to pass your environment keys using the --dart-define command during the build phase. 

When using the Workflow editor scroll down to the `Build` step, now include `--dart-define=MAPS_API_KEY=$CM_MAPS_API_KEY`, where CM_MAPS_API_KEY is an environment variable set in your Code Magic App settings (as a global variable) or have it defined in your current workflow at the start under `Environment variables` step.

When using .yaml workflow file, go to the script where the flutter build command is ran and add the --dart-define. It could look something like `flutter build appbundle --release --dart-define=MAPS_API_KEY=$CM_MAPS_API_KEY` or in your step to build for iOS `flutter build ipa --release --export-options-plist=/Users/builder/export_options.plist --dart-define=MAPS_API_KEY=$CM_MAPS_API_KEY`.

For each key the command has to be added, e.g.  `flutter build ip --release --dart-define=KEY_ONE=$CM_KEY_ONE --dart-define=KEY_TWO=$CM_KEY_TWO`

Within your Flutter app it can be used in any part of your code
{{< highlight Dart "style=paraiso-dark">}}
void main(){
    final secret = String.fromEnvironment('MAPS_API_KEY');
    print(secret);
}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{</markdown>}}

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="iOS (Swift)" >}}
{{<markdown>}}
1. Add your key as an environment variable with the name `MAPS_API_KEY`
2. Reference the environment variable in the `Info.plist`
{{< highlight xml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
<key>MAPS_API_KEY</key>
<string>$(MAPS_API_KEY)</string>
{{< /highlight >}}

3. Reference the value from `Info.plist` in the `AppDelegate.swift`

{{< highlight Swift "style=paraiso-dark">}}
GMSServices.provideAPIKey(Bundle.main.object(forInfoDictionaryKey: "MAPS_API_KEY") as? String ?? "")
{{< /highlight >}}
{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="iOS (Objective-C)" >}}
{{<markdown>}}
1. Add your key as an environment variable with the name `MAPS_API_KEY`
2. Reference the environment variable in the `AppDelegate.m` as in the following [example](https://github.com/flutter/plugins/blob/master/packages/google_maps_flutter/google_maps_flutter/example/ios/Runner/AppDelegate.m).

{{< highlight Objective-C "style=paraiso-dark">}}
[GMSServices provideAPIKey:[[NSProcessInfo processInfo] environment][@"MAPS_API_KEY"]];
{{< /highlight >}}

{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabpane >}}

Commit message:

Improve using-environment-variables.md
Learning on the go, apparently global variables are unable to be used in the workflow editor

content/yaml-basic-configuration/using-environment-variables.md, after:

---
description: How to use environment variables in scripts in codemagic.yaml
title: Using environment variables with codemagic.yaml
linkTitle: Using environment variables
weight: 3
aliases:
  - /variables/using-environment-variables
---

To access a variable during build time, add the `$` symbol in front of its name. For example, you can access the value of `API_TOKEN` variable by referencing it as `$API_TOKEN`.

{{<notebox>}}
**Note:** It is required to use quotation marks with multi-line variables when you are referencing them in custom scripts.
{{</notebox>}}


## Setting environment variables at build time and accessing them across shell scripts

By default, if you define an environment variable inside your script, you can only use it within that particular script itself. However, you can make an environment variable available to any subsequent step of your workflow by writing it to the `CM_ENV` environment file.

Specifically, you can do this by writing a `"KEY=value"` pair to the `CM_ENV` environment file. `CM_ENV` can contain multiple environment variables separated by newlines.

The following commands show how to write variables to the `CM_ENV` file, depending on the `instance type` of the build machine you are using:

{{< tabpane >}}

{{< tab header="macOS" >}}
{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
  scripts:
    - name: Save variable to ENV file
      script: | 
        echo "KEY=value" >> $CM_ENV
{{< /highlight >}}
{{<markdown>}}
You can then reference the variable in subsequent parts of your workflow by using `$KEY`.
{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="Linux" >}}
{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
  scripts:
    - name: Save variable to ENV file
      script: | 
        echo "KEY=value" >> $CM_ENV
{{< /highlight >}}
{{<markdown>}}
You can then reference the variable in subsequent parts of your workflow by using `$KEY`.
{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="Windows" >}}
{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
  scripts:
    - name: Save variable to ENV file
      script: | 
        Add-Content -Path $env:CM_ENV -Value "KEY=value"
{{< /highlight >}}
{{<markdown>}}
You can then reference the variable in subsequent parts of your workflow by using `$env:KEY`.
{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabpane >}}


#### Setting a multiline environment variable

To add a multiline environment variable, you need to use `<<` instead of an `=` to mark the end of the key in the key-value pair. In addition, set a delimiter to mark the start and the end of the variable. 

In the following example, the `DELIMITER` keyword can be replaced by any word of your choice, however, make sure that the delimiter at the beginning and at the end match.

{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
  scripts:
    - name: Save variable to ENV file
      script: | 
        echo 'MULTILINE_VAR<<DELIMITER' >> $CM_ENV
        echo 'line_one\nline_two' >> $CM_ENV
        echo 'DELIMITER' >> $CM_ENV
{{< /highlight >}}


Note that the example is specific to Linux and macOS machines but the same principles apply when building on Windows.



## Accessing environment variables from apps

Environment variables can also be accessed from within your apps. One of the great advantages is that you are able to use sensitive data such as API keys without having to store them in your repository.

The following examples show how to place your Google Maps API key into an Android or iOS application from an environment variable.

{{< tabpane >}}

{{< tab header="Android" >}}
{{<markdown>}}

1. Add your key as an environment variable with the name `MAPS_API_KEY`
2. Reference the environment variable in the `build.gradle`
{{< highlight Groovy "style=paraiso-dark">}}
defaultConfig {
    // Other values set here
    resValue "string", "maps_api_key", "$System.env.MAPS_API_KEY"
}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{</markdown>}}

3. Reference the value from `build.gradle` in the `AndroidManifest.xml`

{{< highlight xml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
<meta-data
    android:name="com.google.android.geo.API_KEY"
    android:value="@string/maps_api_key"
/>
{{< /highlight >}}

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="Flutter" >}}
{{<markdown>}}

With Flutter the approach is slightly different. You will have to pass your environment keys using the --dart-define command during the build phase. 

When using the Workflow editor it is important to know that it is not possible to use global environment variables from your [teams settings](https://codemagic.io/teams). In the Workflow editor you can put your keys under the `Environment variables` step, for this example the `CM_MAPS_API_KEY` is set with a random value (make sure it doesn't contain any spaces). To use it, scroll down to the `Build` step, include `--dart-define=MAPS_API_KEY=$CM_MAPS_API_KEY`, note the use of two separate keys, it is only show the difference between the key used in your code magic workflow and the one used in your dart code, but you are free to call them whatever you like, but it is important to use the `$` in front of the environment variable defined in your Workflow.

When using a .yaml workflow file, you are allowed to use [global variables](https://docs.codemagic.io/yaml-basic-configuration/configuring-environment-variables/). In your `codemagic.yaml` file go to the script where the flutter build command is ran and add the --dart-define. It could look something like `flutter build appbundle --release --dart-define=MAPS_API_KEY=$CM_MAPS_API_KEY` or in your step to build for iOS `flutter build ipa --release --export-options-plist=/Users/builder/export_options.plist --dart-define=MAPS_API_KEY=$CM_MAPS_API_KEY`.

For each key the command has to be added, e.g.  `flutter build ip --release --dart-define=KEY_ONE=$CM_KEY_ONE --dart-define=KEY_TWO=$CM_KEY_TWO`

Within your Flutter app it can be used in any part of your code
{{< highlight Dart "style=paraiso-dark">}}
void main(){
    final secret = String.fromEnvironment('MAPS_API_KEY');
    print(secret);
}
{{< /highlight >}}
{{</markdown>}}

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="iOS (Swift)" >}}
{{<markdown>}}
1. Add your key as an environment variable with the name `MAPS_API_KEY`
2. Reference the environment variable in the `Info.plist`
{{< highlight xml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
<key>MAPS_API_KEY</key>
<string>$(MAPS_API_KEY)</string>
{{< /highlight >}}

3. Reference the value from `Info.plist` in the `AppDelegate.swift`

{{< highlight Swift "style=paraiso-dark">}}
GMSServices.provideAPIKey(Bundle.main.object(forInfoDictionaryKey: "MAPS_API_KEY") as? String ?? "")
{{< /highlight >}}
{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="iOS (Objective-C)" >}}
{{<markdown>}}
1. Add your key as an environment variable with the name `MAPS_API_KEY`
2. Reference the environment variable in the `AppDelegate.m` as in the following [example](https://github.com/flutter/plugins/blob/master/packages/google_maps_flutter/google_maps_flutter/example/ios/Runner/AppDelegate.m).

{{< highlight Objective-C "style=paraiso-dark">}}
[GMSServices provideAPIKey:[[NSProcessInfo processInfo] environment][@"MAPS_API_KEY"]];
{{< /highlight >}}

{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabpane >}}
