content/yaml-code-signing/code-signing-identities.md, before:

---
title: Code signing identities
description: How to set up code signing identities
weight: 4
aliases: /code-signing-yaml/code-signing-identities
---

Teams can use code signing identities to manage their code signing files in **Team settings > codemagic.yaml settings > Code signing identities** and reference them from their `codemagic.yaml` configuration. This makes managing code signing files easier and reduces the number of extra scripts required in your configuration file.

## Managing and uploading files

Team owner permissions are required to upload and edit files under the **Code signing identities** section. However, all team members can view the file info for any of the uploaded files.

### iOS certificates

Codemagic lets you upload certificates with the `.p12` or `.pem` extension. When uploading, Codemagic will ask you to provide the certificate password (only enforced for password-protected certificates) along with a unique **Reference name**, which can then be used in the `codemagic.yaml` configuration to fetch the specific file.

In addition, Codemagic provides the option to generate a new `Apple Development` or `Apple Distribution` certificate. Click on **Generate certificate**, provide a **Reference name** and choose the certificate type and a API key. Once the certificate has been created, Codemagic will allow you to download the certificate and provides the password for it. Note that the certificate can be downloaded just once right after creating it.

Note that Apple limits the number of `Apple Distribution` certificates to 3. If you have already reached the maximum number of certificates, the following error will be displayed:

```
There is a problem with the request entity - You already have a current Distribution certificate or a pending certificate request.
```

Similar errors can also arise in rarer cases with `Apple Development` certificates. To resolve the error, either remove some old certificate from the Apple Developer Portal or upload an existing certificate manually.

However, in the case of existing certificates generated by Codemagic, it is possible to automatically fetch them from the Apple Developer Portal based on the API key.

{{<notebox>}}
Fetching certificates that Codemagic has not created is disabled because each certificate has a unique private key to which Codemagic has no access, thus rendering the certificate unusable.
{{</notebox>}}

The **Reference name**, certificate type, team, and expiration date are displayed for each added certificate.

### iOS profiles

You can upload provisioning profiles with the `.mobileprovision` extension. 

Alternatively, you can automatically fetch the provisioning profiles from the Apple Developer Portal based on your team's App Store Connect API key. The bundle identifier is listed for every available profile along with it's name. The profiles are displayed by category: `Development profiles`, `Ad Hoc profiles`, `App Store profiles`, and `Enterprise profiles`. For each selected profile, it is necessary to provide a unique **Reference name**, which can be later used in `codemagic.yaml` to fetch the profile.

The profile's type, team, bundle id, and expiration date are displayed for each profile added to Code signing identities. Furthermore, Codemagic will let you know whether a matching certificate exists under Code signing identities certificates in the `Certificate` field.

### Android keystores

Codemagic lets you upload your Android keystores. When uploading a keystore, it is required that the keystore password, key alias, and key password (if exists) are provided.

Furthermore, it is required that a unique **Reference name** is assigned to each uploaded keystore, which can be used to fetch the keystore during the build using the `codemagic.yaml` configuration file. 

For each keystore, its common name, issuer, and expiration date are displayed.


Note that the uploaded keystore cannot be downloaded from Codemagic. It is crucial that you store a copy of the keystore file used in Codemagic as all subsequent builds released to Google Play should be signed with the same keystore.  

## Referencing files in codemagic.yaml

After uploading code signing files to Codemagic, these files can be fetched and used during the build by providing the reference names in the `codemagic.yaml` configuration.

### Apple certificates and profiles

Codemagic provides two means of fetching the required certificates and provisioning profiles during the build with the use of `codemagic.yaml`. Fetching can either be configured by specifying the distribution type and bundle identifier, or for more advanced use-cases, individual files can be fetched by their reference names.

#### Fetching files by distribution type and bundle identifier

To fetch all uploaded signing files matching a specific distribution type and bundle identifier during the build, define the `distribution_type` and `bundle_identifier` fields in your `codemagic.yaml` configuration. Note that it is necessary to configure both of the fields.

```yaml
environment:
    ios_signing:
        distribution_type: ad_hoc  # app_store | development | enterprise
        bundle_identifier: com.example.id
```

When defining the bundle identifier `com.example.id`, Codemagic will fetch any uploaded certificates and profiles matching the extensions as well (e.g. `com.example.id.NotificationService`).

#### Fetching specific files by reference names

For a more advanced configuration, it is possible to pick out specific uploaded profiles and certificates for Codemagic to fetch during the build. To do so, list the references of the uploaded files under the `provisioning_profiles` and `certificates` fields, respectively.

```yaml
environment:
    ios_signing:
        provisioning_profiles:
            - profile_reference
            - ...
        certificates:
            - certificate_reference
            - ...
```

By default, Codemagic saves the files to the following locations on the build machine:
- Profiles: `"~/Library/MobileDevice/Provisioning Profiles"`
- Certificates: `"~/Library/MobileDevice/Certificates"`

It is additionally possible to include names for environment variables that will point to the file paths on the build machine.

```yaml
environment:
    ios_signing:
        provisioning_profiles:
            - profile: profile_reference
              environment_variable: THIS_PROFILE_PATH_ON_DISK
            - ...
        certificates:
            - certificate: certificate_reference
              environment_variable: THIS_CERTIFICATE_PATH_ON_DISK
            - ...
```

#### Using profiles

To apply the profiles to your project during the build, add the following script before your build scripts:

```yaml
scripts:
    ... your dependencies installation
    - name: Set up code signing settings on Xcode project
        script: xcode-project use-profiles
    ... your build commands
```

### Android keystores

To tell Codemagic to fetch the uploaded keystores from the **Code signing identities** section during the build, list the reference of the uploaded keystore under the `android_signing` field.

#### Fetching a single keystore file

```yaml
environment:
    android_signing:
        - keystore_reference
```

Default environment variables are assigned by Codemagic for the values on the build machine:
- Keystore path: `CM_KEYSTORE_PATH`
- Keystore password: `CM_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD`
- Key alias: `CM_KEY_ALIAS`
- Key alias password: `CM_KEY_PASSWORD`

It is necessary to either set up a `key.properties` file in a separate script with these values or reference them in your `build.gradle` depending on how your [Android code signing](/code-signing-yaml/signing-android) is configured.

#### Fetching multiple keystore files

When fetching multiple keystores during a build, it is necessary to include names for environment variables that will point to the file paths on the build machine.

```yaml
environment:
    android_signing:
        - keystore: keystore_reference_1
          keystore_environment_variable: THIS_KEYSTORE_PATH_ON_DISK_1
          keystore_password_environment_variable: THIS_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD_1
          key_alias_environment_variable: THIS_KEY_ALIAS_1
          key_password_environment_variable: THIS_KEY_PASSWORD_1
        - keystore: keystore_reference_2
          keystore_environment_variable: THIS_KEYSTORE_PATH_ON_DISK_2
          keystore_password_environment_variable: THIS_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD_2
          key_alias_environment_variable: THIS_KEY_ALIAS_2
          key_password_environment_variable: THIS_KEY_PASSWORD_2
```

Commit message:

Clarify individual use of profiles vs bundle ids

content/yaml-code-signing/code-signing-identities.md, after:

---
title: Code signing identities
description: How to set up code signing identities
weight: 4
aliases: /code-signing-yaml/code-signing-identities
---

Teams can use code signing identities to manage their code signing files in **Team settings > codemagic.yaml settings > Code signing identities** and reference them from their `codemagic.yaml` configuration. This makes managing code signing files easier and reduces the number of extra scripts required in your configuration file.

## Managing and uploading files

Team owner permissions are required to upload and edit files under the **Code signing identities** section. However, all team members can view the file info for any of the uploaded files.

### iOS certificates

Codemagic lets you upload certificates with the `.p12` or `.pem` extension. When uploading, Codemagic will ask you to provide the certificate password (only enforced for password-protected certificates) along with a unique **Reference name**, which can then be used in the `codemagic.yaml` configuration to fetch the specific file.

In addition, Codemagic provides the option to generate a new `Apple Development` or `Apple Distribution` certificate. Click on **Generate certificate**, provide a **Reference name** and choose the certificate type and a API key. Once the certificate has been created, Codemagic will allow you to download the certificate and provides the password for it. Note that the certificate can be downloaded just once right after creating it.

Note that Apple limits the number of `Apple Distribution` certificates to 3. If you have already reached the maximum number of certificates, the following error will be displayed:

```
There is a problem with the request entity - You already have a current Distribution certificate or a pending certificate request.
```

Similar errors can also arise in rarer cases with `Apple Development` certificates. To resolve the error, either remove some old certificate from the Apple Developer Portal or upload an existing certificate manually.

However, in the case of existing certificates generated by Codemagic, it is possible to automatically fetch them from the Apple Developer Portal based on the API key.

{{<notebox>}}
Fetching certificates that Codemagic has not created is disabled because each certificate has a unique private key to which Codemagic has no access, thus rendering the certificate unusable.
{{</notebox>}}

The **Reference name**, certificate type, team, and expiration date are displayed for each added certificate.

### iOS profiles

You can upload provisioning profiles with the `.mobileprovision` extension. 

Alternatively, you can automatically fetch the provisioning profiles from the Apple Developer Portal based on your team's App Store Connect API key. The bundle identifier is listed for every available profile along with it's name. The profiles are displayed by category: `Development profiles`, `Ad Hoc profiles`, `App Store profiles`, and `Enterprise profiles`. For each selected profile, it is necessary to provide a unique **Reference name**, which can be later used in `codemagic.yaml` to fetch the profile.

The profile's type, team, bundle id, and expiration date are displayed for each profile added to Code signing identities. Furthermore, Codemagic will let you know whether a matching certificate exists under Code signing identities certificates in the `Certificate` field.

### Android keystores

Codemagic lets you upload your Android keystores. When uploading a keystore, it is required that the keystore password, key alias, and key password (if exists) are provided.

Furthermore, it is required that a unique **Reference name** is assigned to each uploaded keystore, which can be used to fetch the keystore during the build using the `codemagic.yaml` configuration file. 

For each keystore, its common name, issuer, and expiration date are displayed.


Note that the uploaded keystore cannot be downloaded from Codemagic. It is crucial that you store a copy of the keystore file used in Codemagic as all subsequent builds released to Google Play should be signed with the same keystore.  

## Referencing files in codemagic.yaml

After uploading code signing files to Codemagic, these files can be fetched and used during the build by providing the reference names in the `codemagic.yaml` configuration.

### Apple certificates and profiles

Codemagic provides two means of fetching the required certificates and provisioning profiles during the build with the use of `codemagic.yaml`. Fetching can either be configured by specifying the distribution type and bundle identifier, or for more advanced use-cases, individual files can be fetched by their reference names.

#### Fetching files by distribution type and bundle identifier

To fetch all uploaded signing files matching a specific distribution type and bundle identifier during the build, define the `distribution_type` and `bundle_identifier` fields in your `codemagic.yaml` configuration. Note that it is necessary to configure both of the fields.

Note that when using the fields `distribution_type` and `bundle_identifier`, it is not allowed to configure `provisioning_profiles` and `certificates` fields.

```yaml
environment:
    ios_signing:
        distribution_type: ad_hoc  # app_store | development | enterprise
        bundle_identifier: com.example.id
```

When defining the bundle identifier `com.example.id`, Codemagic will fetch any uploaded certificates and profiles matching the extensions as well (e.g. `com.example.id.NotificationService`).

#### Fetching specific files by reference names

For a more advanced configuration, it is possible to pick out specific uploaded profiles and certificates for Codemagic to fetch during the build. To do so, list the references of the uploaded files under the `provisioning_profiles` and `certificates` fields, respectively. Note than when fetching individual files, the fields `distribution_type` and `bundle_identifier` are not allowed.

```yaml
environment:
    ios_signing:
        provisioning_profiles:
            - profile_reference
            - ...
        certificates:
            - certificate_reference
            - ...
```

By default, Codemagic saves the files to the following locations on the build machine:
- Profiles: `~/Library/MobileDevice/Provisioning Profiles`
- Certificates: `~/Library/MobileDevice/Certificates`

It is additionally possible to include names for environment variables that will point to the file paths on the build machine.

```yaml
environment:
    ios_signing:
        provisioning_profiles:
            - profile: profile_reference
              environment_variable: THIS_PROFILE_PATH_ON_DISK
            - ...
        certificates:
            - certificate: certificate_reference
              environment_variable: THIS_CERTIFICATE_PATH_ON_DISK
            - ...
```

#### Using profiles

To apply the profiles to your project during the build, add the following script before your build scripts:

```yaml
scripts:
    ... your dependencies installation
    - name: Set up code signing settings on Xcode project
        script: xcode-project use-profiles
    ... your build commands
```

### Android keystores

To tell Codemagic to fetch the uploaded keystores from the **Code signing identities** section during the build, list the reference of the uploaded keystore under the `android_signing` field.

#### Fetching a single keystore file

```yaml
environment:
    android_signing:
        - keystore_reference
```

Default environment variables are assigned by Codemagic for the values on the build machine:
- Keystore path: `CM_KEYSTORE_PATH`
- Keystore password: `CM_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD`
- Key alias: `CM_KEY_ALIAS`
- Key alias password: `CM_KEY_PASSWORD`

It is necessary to either set up a `key.properties` file in a separate script with these values or reference them in your `build.gradle` depending on how your [Android code signing](/code-signing-yaml/signing-android) is configured.

#### Fetching multiple keystore files

When fetching multiple keystores during a build, it is necessary to include names for environment variables that will point to the file paths on the build machine.

```yaml
environment:
    android_signing:
        - keystore: keystore_reference_1
          keystore_environment_variable: THIS_KEYSTORE_PATH_ON_DISK_1
          keystore_password_environment_variable: THIS_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD_1
          key_alias_environment_variable: THIS_KEY_ALIAS_1
          key_password_environment_variable: THIS_KEY_PASSWORD_1
        - keystore: keystore_reference_2
          keystore_environment_variable: THIS_KEYSTORE_PATH_ON_DISK_2
          keystore_password_environment_variable: THIS_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD_2
          key_alias_environment_variable: THIS_KEY_ALIAS_2
          key_password_environment_variable: THIS_KEY_PASSWORD_2
```
