content/partials/quickstart/publishing-app-store.md, before:

Codemagic enables you to automatically publish your iOS or macOS app to [App Store Connect](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/) for beta testing with [TestFlight](https://developer.apple.com/testflight/) or distributing the app to users via App Store. Codemagic uses the **App Store Connect API key** for authenticating communication with Apple's services. You can read more about generating an API key from Apple's [documentation page](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/creating_api_keys_for_app_store_connect_api).

Please note that:

1. for App Store Connect publishing, the provided key needs to have [App Manager permission](https://help.apple.com/app-store-connect/#/deve5f9a89d7),
2. and in order to submit your iOS application to App Store Connect, it must be code signed with a distribution [certificate](https://developer.apple.com/support/certificates/).

The following snippet demonstrates how to authenticate with and upload the IPA to App Store Connect, submit the build to beta tester groups in TestFlight and configure releasing the app to App Store. See additional configuration options for App Store Connect publishing [here](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/app-store-connect/publish.md).

{{<notebox>}}**Note:** Please note that you will need to create an **app record** in App Store Connect before you can automate publishing with Codemagic. It is recommended to upload the very first version of the app manually. Suppose you have set up an **app record** but have not manually uploaded the app's first version. In that case, manual configuration of the settings must be done on App Store Connect after the build is complete, such as uploading the required screenshots and providing the values for the privacy policy URL and application category. {{</notebox>}}

{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
# Integration section is required to make use of the keys stored in 
# Codemagic UI under Apple Developer Portal integration.
integrations:
  app_store_connect: <App Store Connect API key name>

publishing:
  app_store_connect:
    # Use referenced App Store Connect API key to authenticate binary upload
    auth: integration 

    # Configuration related to TestFlight (optional)

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Whether or not to submit the uploaded
    # build to TestFlight beta review. Required for distributing to beta groups.
    # Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    submit_to_testflight: true 

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Set to true to automatically expire all previous builds upon
    # submitting a new build to beta review. Expired builds will no longer be available for testers.
    # Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    expire_previous_builds: true

    # Specify the names of beta tester groups that will get access to the build 
    # once it has passed beta review.
    beta_groups: 
      - group name 1
      - group name 2
    
    # Configuration related to App Store (optional)

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Whether or not to submit the uploaded
    # build to App Store review. Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    submit_to_app_store: true

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Set to true to cancel the previous 
    # submission (if applicable) when submitting a new build to App Store review.
    # This allows automatically submitting a new build for review if a previous submission exists.
    # Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    cancel_previous_submissions: true
    
    # Optional, defaults to MANUAL. Supported values: MANUAL, AFTER_APPROVAL or SCHEDULED
    release_type: SCHEDULED

    # Optional. Timezone-aware ISO8601 timestamp with hour precision when scheduling
    # the release. This can be only used when release type is set to SCHEDULED.
    # It cannot be set to a date in the past.
    earliest_release_date: 2021-12-01T14:00:00+00:00 
    
    # Optional. The name of the person or entity that owns the exclusive rights
    # to your app, preceded by the year the rights were obtained.
    copyright: 2021 Nevercode Ltd
{{< /highlight >}}

Commit message:

Retire expire-builds in favor of expire-build-submitted-for-review

content/partials/quickstart/publishing-app-store.md, after:

Codemagic enables you to automatically publish your iOS or macOS app to [App Store Connect](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/) for beta testing with [TestFlight](https://developer.apple.com/testflight/) or distributing the app to users via App Store. Codemagic uses the **App Store Connect API key** for authenticating communication with Apple's services. You can read more about generating an API key from Apple's [documentation page](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/creating_api_keys_for_app_store_connect_api).

Please note that:

1. for App Store Connect publishing, the provided key needs to have [App Manager permission](https://help.apple.com/app-store-connect/#/deve5f9a89d7),
2. and in order to submit your iOS application to App Store Connect, it must be code signed with a distribution [certificate](https://developer.apple.com/support/certificates/).

The following snippet demonstrates how to authenticate with and upload the IPA to App Store Connect, submit the build to beta tester groups in TestFlight and configure releasing the app to App Store. See additional configuration options for App Store Connect publishing [here](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/app-store-connect/publish.md).

{{<notebox>}}**Note:** Please note that you will need to create an **app record** in App Store Connect before you can automate publishing with Codemagic. It is recommended to upload the very first version of the app manually. Suppose you have set up an **app record** but have not manually uploaded the app's first version. In that case, manual configuration of the settings must be done on App Store Connect after the build is complete, such as uploading the required screenshots and providing the values for the privacy policy URL and application category. {{</notebox>}}

{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
# Integration section is required to make use of the keys stored in 
# Codemagic UI under Apple Developer Portal integration.
integrations:
  app_store_connect: <App Store Connect API key name>

publishing:
  app_store_connect:
    # Use referenced App Store Connect API key to authenticate binary upload
    auth: integration 

    # Configuration related to TestFlight (optional)

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Whether or not to submit the uploaded
    # build to TestFlight beta review. Required for distributing to beta groups.
    # Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    submit_to_testflight: true 

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Set to true to automatically expire previous build in review or waiting for review in Testflight before
    # submitting a new build to beta review. Expired builds will no longer be available for testers.
    # Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    expire_build_submitted_for_review: true

    # Specify the names of beta tester groups that will get access to the build 
    # once it has passed beta review.
    beta_groups: 
      - group name 1
      - group name 2
    
    # Configuration related to App Store (optional)

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Whether or not to submit the uploaded
    # build to App Store review. Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    submit_to_app_store: true

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Set to true to cancel the previous 
    # submission (if applicable) when submitting a new build to App Store review.
    # This allows automatically submitting a new build for review if a previous submission exists.
    # Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    cancel_previous_submissions: true
    
    # Optional, defaults to MANUAL. Supported values: MANUAL, AFTER_APPROVAL or SCHEDULED
    release_type: SCHEDULED

    # Optional. Timezone-aware ISO8601 timestamp with hour precision when scheduling
    # the release. This can be only used when release type is set to SCHEDULED.
    # It cannot be set to a date in the past.
    earliest_release_date: 2021-12-01T14:00:00+00:00 
    
    # Optional. The name of the person or entity that owns the exclusive rights
    # to your app, preceded by the year the rights were obtained.
    copyright: 2021 Nevercode Ltd
{{< /highlight >}}
