content/knowledge-base/firebase-crashlytics-dsym-uploading.md, before:

---
description: How to upload dsym artifacts to Firebase Crashlytics
title: Firebase Crashlytics dsym uploading
weight: 4
aliases:
  - '../custom-scripts/firebase-crashlytics-dsym-uploading'
---

Here is how you can upload Xcode debugging symbols file to Firebase Crashlytics

  ```bash
  echo "Find build artifacts"
  dsymPath=$(find $CM_BUILD_DIR/build/ios/archive/Runner.xcarchive $CM_BUILD_DIR/build/ios/xcarchive/Runner.xcarchive -name "*.dSYM.zip" | head -1)
  if [[ -z ${dsymPath} ]]
  then
    echo "No debug symbols were found, skip publishing to Firebase Crashlytics"
  else
    echo "Publishing debug symbols from $dsymPath to Firebase Crashlytics"
    ls -d -- ios/Pods/*
    $CM_BUILD_DIR/ios/Pods/FirebaseCrashlytics/upload-symbols -gsp ios/Runner/GoogleService-Info.plist -p ios $dsymPath
  fi
  ```

Add this script either to your configuration file or in your post-publish script in the Flutter workflow editor to locate and upload dSYM files to Firebase Crashlytics.

For Native iOS apps, in the case of using SwiftPackageManager (SPM) instead of CocoaPods, the following script needs to be added in a post-publishing script:

```bash
echo "Find build artifacts"
dsymPath=$(find build/ios/xcarchive/* | head -1)
echo "dsyms expected in:"
ls -d -- $dsymPath/dSYMs/*
dsymFile=$(find $dsymPath/dSYMs -name "*.dSYM" | head -1) 
if [[ -z ${dsymFile} ]]
then
  echo "No debug symbols were found, skip publishing to Firebase Crashlytics"
else
  echo "Publishing debug symbols in $dsymFile to Firebase Crashlytics"
  echo $dsymFile
  ls -d -- $CM_BUILD_DIR/*
  $HOME/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/**/SourcePackages/checkouts/firebase-ios-sdk/Crashlytics/upload-symbols -gsp $CM_BUILD_DIR/<PATH_TO_YOUR_GoogleService-Info.plist> -p ios $dsymFile
fi
```

Commit message:

Update firebase-crashlytics-dsym-uploading.md (#750)
* Update firebase-crashlytics-dsym-uploading.md

* Update firebase-crashlytics-dsym-uploading.md

xarchive does not exist anymore, needs to be replaced with archive

* Update firebase-crashlytics-dsym-uploading.md

* Update firebase-crashlytics-dsym-uploading.md

* Update firebase-crashlytics-dsym-uploading.md

content/knowledge-base/firebase-crashlytics-dsym-uploading.md, after:

---
description: How to upload dsym artifacts to Firebase Crashlytics
title: Firebase Crashlytics dsym uploading
weight: 4
aliases:
  - '../custom-scripts/firebase-crashlytics-dsym-uploading'
---

**dSYM** files store the debug symbols for your app. It contains mapping information to decode a stack-trace into readable format. The purpose of **dSYM** is to replace symbols in the crash logs with the specific methods so it will be readable and helpful for debugging the crash. In order to generate debug symbols, Firebase Crashlytics must be installed using the following command line:

```
flutter pub add firebase_crashlytics
```

Alternatively, **firebase_crashlytics: ^2.5.2** could be added in **pubspec.yaml** file under **dependencies**:

```
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  firebase_crashlytics: ^2.5.2
```

As soon as your build finishes successfully, debug symbols are generated. However, if you want them to be displayed in the Codemagic UI on the build page, then the following path needs to be configured in codemagic.yaml under the artifacts section:

```
 - $HOME/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/**/Build/**/*.dSYM
 ```

In order to upload the dSYM files to Firebase Crashlytics, add the following script to your codemagic.yaml configuration file or to your post-publish script in the Flutter workflow editor: 

  ```bash
  echo "Find build artifacts"
  dsymPath=$(find $CM_BUILD_DIR/build/ios/archive/Runner.xcarchive -name "*.dSYM" | head -1)
  if [[ -z ${dsymPath} ]]
  then
    echo "No debug symbols were found, skip publishing to Firebase Crashlytics"
  else
    echo "Publishing debug symbols from $dsymPath to Firebase Crashlytics"
    ls -d -- ios/Pods/*
    $CM_BUILD_DIR/ios/Pods/FirebaseCrashlytics/upload-symbols -gsp ios/Runner/GoogleService-Info.plist -p ios $dsymPath
  fi
  ```

For Native iOS apps, in the case of using SwiftPackageManager (SPM) instead of CocoaPods, the following script needs to be added in a post-publishing script:

```bash
echo "Find build artifacts"
dsymPath=$(find build/ios/xcarchive/* | head -1)
echo "dsyms expected in:"
ls -d -- $dsymPath/dSYMs/*
dsymFile=$(find $dsymPath/dSYMs -name "*.dSYM" | head -1) 
if [[ -z ${dsymFile} ]]
then
  echo "No debug symbols were found, skip publishing to Firebase Crashlytics"
else
  echo "Publishing debug symbols in $dsymFile to Firebase Crashlytics"
  echo $dsymFile
  ls -d -- $CM_BUILD_DIR/*
  $HOME/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData/**/SourcePackages/checkouts/firebase-ios-sdk/Crashlytics/upload-symbols -gsp $CM_BUILD_DIR/<PATH_TO_YOUR_GoogleService-Info.plist> -p ios $dsymFile
fi
```

## Sample Project

A sample project for uploading **dSYM** files to Firebase Crashlytics can be found [here](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/codemagic-sample-projects/tree/main/integrations/firebase_crashlytics_demo_project)
