content/knowledge-base/load-firebase-configuration.md, before:

---
description: How to load Firebase configuration files into environment variables in a Flutter workflow editor pre-build script
title: Loading Firebase configuration
weight: 4
aliases:
  - '../custom-scripts/load-firebase-configuration'
---

Instead of committing the Firebase configuration files to your repository, you can upload them to Codemagic as [environment variables](../building/environment-variables/) and reference them in a custom script. Note that the Firebase configuration file (`google-services.json` for Android or `GoogleService-Info.plist` for iOS) must be Base64-encoded.

1.  Save your Firebase config files as environment variables, e.g. `ANDROID_FIREBASE_SECRET` and `IOS_FIREBASE_SECRET`. 
2.  Add the following **pre-build** script echoing your variables to load the Firebase configuration in Codemagic.

  ```bash
  #!/usr/bin/env sh
  set -e # exit on first failed command

  echo $ANDROID_FIREBASE_SECRET | base64 --decode > $FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/app/google-services.json
  echo $IOS_FIREBASE_SECRET | base64 --decode > $FCI_BUILD_DIR/ios/Runner/GoogleService-Info.plist
  ```

  In case your project is in a nested folder structure, it has to be reflected, and the script should be as follows: 

  ```bash
  #!/usr/bin/env sh
  set -e # exit on first failed command

  PROJECT_ROOT=$FCI_BUILD_DIR/myproject/path      # ADD YOUR PROJECT FOLDER PATH HERE

  echo $ANDROID_FIREBASE_SECRET | base64 --decode > $PROJECT_ROOT/android/app/google-services.json
  echo $IOS_FIREBASE_SECRET | base64 --decode > $PROJECT_ROOT/ios/Runner/GoogleService-Info.plist
  ```

{{<notebox>}}

`post-clone script failed on base64 decode. The command could not be found`
If you received this error message when using the script above, it might be due to some invisible Unicode characters in the script after copy-pasting it. Try removing the space between the `base64` command and the `--decode` option and then adding it back.
{{</notebox>}}

For more details about using base64 and loading the Firebase configuration in Codemagic, see the step-by-step guide [here](https://blog.codemagic.io/how-to-load-firebase-config-in-codemagic-with-environment-variables/).

Commit message:

Fix: Removing base64 encoding (#534)
* Fix: Removing base64 encoding

* Update load-firebase-configuration.md

* Update content/knowledge-base/load-firebase-configuration.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

content/knowledge-base/load-firebase-configuration.md, after:

---
description: How to load Firebase configuration files into environment variables in a Flutter workflow editor pre-build script
title: Loading Firebase configuration
weight: 4
aliases:
  - '../custom-scripts/load-firebase-configuration'
---

Instead of committing the Firebase configuration files to your repository, you can upload them to Codemagic as **environment variables** and reference them in a custom script.

1.  Save the **contents** of Firebase config files as environment variables, e.g. `ANDROID_FIREBASE_SECRET` and `IOS_FIREBASE_SECRET` in Codemagic UI (either in Application or Team variables) and select **Secure**. 
2.  Add the following **pre-build** script echoing your variables to load the Firebase configuration in Codemagic.

  ```bash
  #!/usr/bin/env sh
  set -e # exit on first failed command

  echo $ANDROID_FIREBASE_SECRET > $FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/app/google-services.json
  echo $IOS_FIREBASE_SECRET > $FCI_BUILD_DIR/ios/Runner/GoogleService-Info.plist
  ```

  In case your project is in a nested folder structure, it has to be reflected, and the script should be as follows: 

  ```bash
  #!/usr/bin/env sh
  set -e # exit on first failed command

  PROJECT_ROOT=$FCI_BUILD_DIR/myproject/path      # ADD YOUR PROJECT FOLDER PATH HERE

  echo $ANDROID_FIREBASE_SECRET > $PROJECT_ROOT/android/app/google-services.json
  echo $IOS_FIREBASE_SECRET > $PROJECT_ROOT/ios/Runner/GoogleService-Info.plist
  ```
