content/flutter/custom-scripts.md, before:

---
title: Custom build steps
weight: 5
aliases: 
  - '../building/custom-scripts'
---

You can customize the Codemagic workflow by running custom scripts before and after the default build steps.

In the UI, the spots for injecting custom scripts are marked by **'+'** signs between the sections. Click on **'+'** to expand the section and add your script in the appropriate section. You can run custom scripts in post-clone, pre-test, post-test, pre-build, post-build, pre-publish and post-publish phases. The scripts can be run in any language, simply define the language with a shebang line. For example, `#!/usr/bin/env python`.

{{<notebox>}}
Please note that custom scripts are always executed from the absolute path to the cloned repository which is located at `/Users/builder/clone` and can also be accessed using the environment variable `FCI_BUILD_DIR`. If your project is not in the repository root and you want to access it from a script, you will need to move to the needed directory inside the script.
{{</notebox>}}

Using `codemagic.yaml` for build configuration allows for even greater customization of builds, read more about it [here](../getting-started/yaml).

{{<notebox>}}
You can find some useful scripts in the **Knowledge base** category.
{{</notebox>}}

Commit message:

Flutter UI vs. Yaml docs improvements (#273)
* Remove separator under title.

* Render description as a subtitle.

* Updated, added, or deleted descriptions for all docs. Drive by corrected punctuation and small issues.

* Hack to add space after subtitle when first content of markdown is a notebox.

* Add page description subtitle to search results

* Add warning boxes with links between flutter and yaml code signing pages

* Add warning boxes with links from flutter google play and app store connect publishing to yaml publishing

* Updated all occurrences of Flutter UI to Flutter workflow editor. Clarified usages of UI when appropriate.

content/flutter/custom-scripts.md, after:

---
title: Custom build steps
description: How to execute custom scripts in builds configured with the Flutter workflow editor
weight: 5
aliases: 
  - '../building/custom-scripts'
---

You can customize the Codemagic workflow by running custom scripts before and after the default build steps.

In the Flutter workflow editor, the spots for injecting custom scripts are marked by **'+'** signs between the sections. Click on **'+'** to expand the section and add your script in the appropriate section. You can run custom scripts in post-clone, pre-test, post-test, pre-build, post-build, pre-publish and post-publish phases. The scripts can be run in any language, simply define the language with a shebang line. For example, `#!/usr/bin/env python`.

{{<notebox>}}
Please note that custom scripts are always executed from the absolute path to the cloned repository which is located at `/Users/builder/clone` and can also be accessed using the environment variable `FCI_BUILD_DIR`. If your project is not in the repository root and you want to access it from a script, you will need to move to the needed directory inside the script.
{{</notebox>}}

Using `codemagic.yaml` for build configuration allows for even greater customization of builds, read more about it [here](../getting-started/yaml).

{{<notebox>}}
You can find some useful scripts in the **Knowledge base** category.
{{</notebox>}}
