content/flutter/dependency-caching.md, before:

---
description: Speed up your builds by storing dependencies on Codemagic.
title: Dependency caching
weight: 6
aliases: 
    - '../building/dependency-caching'
---

You can speed up your builds by storing dependencies on Codemagic. To use caching, you must **enable dependency caching** in app settings. Note that caching is workflow-specific.


You can add paths to be cached, for example:

| **Path**                                    | **Description**                                  |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `$FLUTTER_ROOT/.pub-cache`                  | Dart cache                                       |
| `$HOME/.gradle/caches`                      | Gradle cache. Note: do not cache `$HOME/.gradle` |
| `$HOME/Library/Caches/CocoaPods`            | CocoaPods cache                                  |

&nbsp;

{{<notebox>}}

Caching `$HOME/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData` won't help to speed up iOS builds with Xcode 10.2 or later.

{{</notebox>}}

## Enabling dependency caching

1. In your app settings, open the **Dependency caching** section.
2. Check the **Enable dependency caching** option. By default, caching is disabled.
3. Enter the path(s) to the dependencies to be cached and click **Add**. Note that you can delete added paths anytime.

## Removing cached dependencies

In order to clear the collected cache, navigate to the **Dependency caching** section in app settings and click **Clear cache**. During the next build, dependencies will be downloaded afresh.

Commit message:

Flutter UI vs. Yaml docs improvements (#273)
* Remove separator under title.

* Render description as a subtitle.

* Updated, added, or deleted descriptions for all docs. Drive by corrected punctuation and small issues.

* Hack to add space after subtitle when first content of markdown is a notebox.

* Add page description subtitle to search results

* Add warning boxes with links between flutter and yaml code signing pages

* Add warning boxes with links from flutter google play and app store connect publishing to yaml publishing

* Updated all occurrences of Flutter UI to Flutter workflow editor. Clarified usages of UI when appropriate.

content/flutter/dependency-caching.md, after:

---
description: How to cache dependencies for builds configured with the Flutter workflow editor
title: Dependency caching
weight: 6
aliases: 
    - '../building/dependency-caching'
---

You can speed up your builds by storing dependencies on Codemagic. To use caching, you must **enable dependency caching** in app settings. Note that caching is workflow-specific.


You can add paths to be cached, for example:

| **Path**                                    | **Description**                                  |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `$FLUTTER_ROOT/.pub-cache`                  | Dart cache                                       |
| `$HOME/.gradle/caches`                      | Gradle cache. Note: do not cache `$HOME/.gradle` |
| `$HOME/Library/Caches/CocoaPods`            | CocoaPods cache                                  |

&nbsp;

{{<notebox>}}

Caching `$HOME/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData` won't help to speed up iOS builds with Xcode 10.2 or later.

{{</notebox>}}

## Enabling dependency caching

1. In your app settings, open the **Dependency caching** section.
2. Check the **Enable dependency caching** option. By default, caching is disabled.
3. Enter the path(s) to the dependencies to be cached and click **Add**. Note that you can delete added paths anytime.

## Removing cached dependencies

In order to clear the collected cache, navigate to the **Dependency caching** section in app settings and click **Clear cache**. During the next build, dependencies will be downloaded afresh.
