content/_index.md, before:

---
description: Learn how to use Codemagic to build, test and deploy your mobile apps.
title: Codemagic Documentation
layout: single
exclude: true
---

<div class="links-group-wrap">
{{<links-group title="Start using Codemagic">}}
How to get started with Codemagic 
- [Signup](../getting-started/signup/)
- [Adding apps to Codemagic](../getting-started/adding-apps/)
- [Onboarding assistance](https://codemagic.io/onboarding-assistance/)


{{</links-group>}} 

{{<links-group title="Common questions">}}
Find answers about using Codemagic
- [Frequently asked questions](../getting-started/faq/)
- [Machine specs](../specs/versions-macos/)
- [Pricing](../billing/pricing/) 


{{</links-group>}}



{{<links-group title="iOS troubleshooting">}}
How to resolve iOS issues
- [iOS code signing](../yaml-code-signing/signing-ios/)
- [App Store publishing](../yaml-publishing/app-store-connect/)
- [Common iOS issues](../troubleshooting/common-ios-issues/)
{{</links-group>}}



{{<links-group title="Android troubleshooting">}}
How to resolve Android issues
- [Android code signing](../yaml-code-signing/signing-android/)
- [Google Play publishing](../yaml-publishing/google-play/)
- [Common Android issues](../troubleshooting/common-android-issues/)

{{</links-group>}}
</div>

Commit message:

add references to flutter ios on codemagic codelab (#1797)

content/_index.md, after:

---
description: Learn how to use Codemagic to build, test and deploy your mobile apps.
title: Codemagic Documentation
layout: single
exclude: true
---

<div class="links-group-wrap">
{{<links-group title="Start using Codemagic">}}
How to get started with Codemagic 
- [Signup](../getting-started/signup/)
- [Adding apps to Codemagic](../getting-started/adding-apps/)
- [Onboarding assistance](https://codemagic.io/onboarding-assistance/)
- [Publish your first Flutter app to the App Store](https://labs.codemagic.io/your-first-flutter-app-to-appstore)


{{</links-group>}} 

{{<links-group title="Common questions">}}
Find answers about using Codemagic
- [Frequently asked questions](../getting-started/faq/)
- [Machine specs](../specs/versions-macos/)
- [Pricing](../billing/pricing/) 


{{</links-group>}}



{{<links-group title="iOS troubleshooting">}}
How to resolve iOS issues
- [iOS code signing](../yaml-code-signing/signing-ios/)
- [App Store publishing](../yaml-publishing/app-store-connect/)
- [Common iOS issues](../troubleshooting/common-ios-issues/)
{{</links-group>}}



{{<links-group title="Android troubleshooting">}}
How to resolve Android issues
- [Android code signing](../yaml-code-signing/signing-android/)
- [Google Play publishing](../yaml-publishing/google-play/)
- [Common Android issues](../troubleshooting/common-android-issues/)

{{</links-group>}}
</div>
