content/knowledge-codemagic/caching.md, before:

---
description: How to configure caching for your builds
title: Caching
weight: 3
aliases:
  - /flutter/dependency-caching
  - /flutter-configuration/dependency-caching
---

You can speed up your builds by storing dependencies on Codemagic. 

For example, you may consider caching the following paths:

| **Path**                                    | **Description**                                  |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `$FLUTTER_ROOT/.pub-cache`                  | Dart cache                                       |
| `$HOME/.gradle/caches`                      | Gradle cache. Note: do not cache `$HOME/.gradle` |
| `$HOME/Library/Caches/CocoaPods`            | CocoaPods cache                                  |

A great article on Unity caching can be found in [our blog](https://blog.codemagic.io/unity-caching/).


{{<notebox>}}
**Note:** Caching `$HOME/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData` won't help to speed up iOS builds with Xcode 10.2 or later.
{{</notebox>}}

## Enabling dependency caching

{{< tabpane >}}

{{< tab header="codemagic.yaml" >}}
{{<markdown>}}
To use caching, simply add a `cache` section to your `codemagic.yaml` file and list the paths you would like to cache.

{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
  cache:
    cache_paths:
      - ~/.gradle/caches
      - ...
{{< /highlight >}}
{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="Flutter WFE" >}}
{{<markdown>}}
1. In your app settings, open the **Dependency caching** section.
2. Check the **Enable dependency caching** option. By default, caching is disabled.
3. Enter the path(s) to the dependencies to be cached and click **Add**. Note that you can delete added paths anytime.
{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabpane >}}


## Cache usage limits

Currently, there is no caching limit in size, however, exceeding 1GB cache size might cause performance issues. It means that installing dependencies with no caches could be faster than recovering or updating cached data.

## Removing cached dependencies

In order to clear the collected cache, navigate to the **Dependency caching** section in app settings and click **Clear cache**. During the next build, dependencies will be downloaded afresh.

Commit message:

Cache size limit (#1183)
* Update caching.md

* Update caching.md

content/knowledge-codemagic/caching.md, after:

---
description: How to configure caching for your builds
title: Caching
weight: 3
aliases:
  - /flutter/dependency-caching
  - /flutter-configuration/dependency-caching
---

You can speed up your builds by storing dependencies on Codemagic. 

For example, you may consider caching the following paths:

| **Path**                                    | **Description**                                  |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ |
| `$FLUTTER_ROOT/.pub-cache`                  | Dart cache                                       |
| `$HOME/.gradle/caches`                      | Gradle cache. Note: do not cache `$HOME/.gradle` |
| `$HOME/Library/Caches/CocoaPods`            | CocoaPods cache                                  |

A great article on Unity caching can be found in [our blog](https://blog.codemagic.io/unity-caching/).


{{<notebox>}}
**Note:** Caching `$HOME/Library/Developer/Xcode/DerivedData` won't help to speed up iOS builds with Xcode 10.2 or later.
{{</notebox>}}

## Enabling dependency caching

{{< tabpane >}}

{{< tab header="codemagic.yaml" >}}
{{<markdown>}}
To use caching, simply add a `cache` section to your `codemagic.yaml` file and list the paths you would like to cache.

{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
  cache:
    cache_paths:
      - ~/.gradle/caches
      - ...
{{< /highlight >}}
{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab header="Flutter WFE" >}}
{{<markdown>}}
1. In your app settings, open the **Dependency caching** section.
2. Check the **Enable dependency caching** option. By default, caching is disabled.
3. Enter the path(s) to the dependencies to be cached and click **Add**. Note that you can delete added paths anytime.
{{</markdown>}}
{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabpane >}}


## Cache usage limits

Caching is limited to 1GB to avoid potential performance issues. Installing dependencies without using caching could be faster than retrieving or updating cached data.

## Removing cached dependencies

In order to clear the collected cache, navigate to the **Dependency caching** section in app settings and click **Clear cache**. During the next build, dependencies will be downloaded afresh.
