content/yaml-notification/email.md, before:

---
description: How to send build status updates to email with links to artifacts in codemagic.yaml
title: Email
weight: 1
aliases:
  - /yaml-publishing/email
---

If the build finishes successfully, release notes (if passed), and the generated artifacts will be published to the provided email address(es). If the build fails, an email with a link to build logs will be sent.

If you don't want to receive an email notification on build success or failure, you can set `success` to `false` or `failure` to `false` accordingly.

{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}

publishing:
  email:
    recipients:
      - name@example.com
    notify:
      success: false # To not receive a notification when a build succeeds
      failure: false # To not receive a notification when a build fails
{{< /highlight >}}



When you set up email publishing, Codemagic publishes the following artifacts:

- `app`
- `ipa`
- `apk`
- the archive with Flutter web build directory
- Linux application bundle files
- Windows MSIX packages

Commit message:

Add note about artifacts download links expiration (#1370)
Co-authored-by: Helina Ariva <helina@nevercode.io>

content/yaml-notification/email.md, after:

---
description: How to send build status updates to email with links to artifacts in codemagic.yaml
title: Email
weight: 1
aliases:
  - /yaml-publishing/email
---

If the build finishes successfully, release notes (if passed), and the generated artifacts will be published to the provided email address(es). The artifact download links in email are valid for 24 hours.

If the build fails, an email with a link to build logs will be sent.

If you don't want to receive an email notification on build success or failure, you can set `success` to `false` or `failure` to `false` accordingly.

{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}

publishing:
  email:
    recipients:
      - name@example.com
    notify:
      success: false # To not receive a notification when a build succeeds
      failure: false # To not receive a notification when a build fails
{{< /highlight >}}



When you set up email publishing, Codemagic publishes the following artifacts:

- `app`
- `ipa`
- `apk`
- the archive with Flutter web build directory
- Linux application bundle files
- Windows MSIX packages
