content/yaml-quick-start/building-a-flutter-app.md, before:

---
title: Building a Flutter app
description: How to build a Flutter app with codemagic.yaml
weight: 4
aliases:	
  - '../yaml/building-a-flutter-app'
  - '/getting-started/building-a-flutter-app'
startLineBreak: true
---

## Setting up a Flutter project

The apps you have available in Codemagic are listed on the Applications page. Click **Add application** to add a new app.

1. On the Applications page, click **Set up build** next to the app you want to start building. 
2. On the popup, select **Flutter App** as the project type and click **Continue**.
3. Then you can choose to either set up your builds in the **codemagic.yaml** file or select the **Workflow Editor** tab to configure the builds in the UI. New Flutter apps come with the **Workflow Editor** by default and it can be switched to **codemagic.yaml** in app settings by clicking the **Switch to YAML configuration** button. Exporting current configuration as **codemagic.yaml** is possible if the checkbox is marked in the pop-up page.

`codemagic.yaml` is a highly customizable configuration file that you can use to build, test and publish Flutter apps, widgets, and Flutter or Dart packages. The Workflow Editor is a quick way to get started building standard Flutter applications.

You can simultaneously set up workflows both in `codemagic.yaml` and the Workflow Editor. However, when a `codemagic.yaml` is detected in the repository, it is automatically used for configuring builds that are triggered in response to the events defined in the file and any configuration in the Flutter workflow editor is ignored.

{{<notebox>}}
For documentation on building Flutter projects using the workflow editor, please refer to [**Building Flutter apps via the workflow editor**](../flutter-configuration/flutter-projects).
{{</notebox>}}

## Building with YAML

1. In order to use `codemagic.yaml` for build configuration in Codemagic, commit the file to the root directory of your repository.
2. Back in app settings in Codemagic, select the **`codemagic.yaml`** tab.
3. Scan for the `codemagic.yaml` file by selecting a **branch** to scan and clicking the **Check for configuration file** button at the top of the page. Note that you can have different configuration files in different branches.
4. If a `codemagic.yaml` file is found in that branch, you can click **Start your first build** and select the **branch** and **workflow** to build.
5. Finally, click **Start new build** to build the app.

## Android builds

{{<notebox>}}
You can find an up-to-date codemagic.yaml Flutter Android workflow in [Codemagic Sample Projects](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/codemagic-sample-projects/blob/main/flutter/flutter-yaml-demo-project/codemagic.yaml#L2).
{{</notebox>}}

Set up local properties

```yaml
- echo "flutter.sdk=$HOME/programs/flutter" > "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/local.properties"
```
### Building an app bundle

```yaml
- flutter build appbundle --release
```

### Building .apk for debug builds

```yaml
- flutter build apk --debug
```

### Building universal .apk(s) from existing app bundle(s) with user-specified keys

If your app settings in Codemagic have building Android App Bundles enabled, we will automatically include a script for generating a signed `app-universal.apk` during the YAML export. If you are creating a YAML file from a scratch, add the following script to receive the .apk file(s):

```yaml
- android-app-bundle build-universal-apk \
  --bundle 'project_directory/build/**/outputs/**/*.aab' \
  --ks /tmp/keystore.keystore \
  --ks-pass $FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD \
  --ks-key-alias $FCI_KEY_ALIAS \
  --key-pass $FCI_KEY_PASSWORD
```

Please make sure to wrap the `--bundle` pattern in single quotes. If the `--bundle` option is not specified, default glob pattern `**/*.aab` will be used.


More information about Android code signing can be found [here](../code-signing-yaml/signing-android).

{{<notebox>}}
Codemagic uses the [android-app-bundle](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/tree/master/docs/android-app-bundle#android-app-bundle) utility to build universal .apk files from Android App Bundles.
{{</notebox>}}

### Example codemagic.yaml Flutter Android workflow

```yaml
workflows:
  android-workflow:
    name: Android Workflow
    max_build_duration: 120
    environment:
      vars:
        GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS: Encrypted(...) # <-- Put your encrypted Google Play service account credentials here.
        FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH: /tmp/keystore.keystore
        FCI_KEYSTORE: Encrypted(...) # <-- Put your encrypted keystore here
        FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...) # <-- Put your encrypted keystore password here
        FCI_KEY_PASSWORD: Encrypted(...) # <-- Put your encrypted key alias password here
        FCI_KEY_ALIAS: Encrypted(...) # <-- Put your encrypted key alias here
        PACKAGE_NAME: "io.codemagic.flutteryaml" # <-- Put your package name here
        GOOGLE_PLAY_TRACK: "alpha" # <-- This must be "alpha" or above.  
      flutter: stable
      xcode: latest
      cocoapods: default
    scripts:
      - name: Set up key properties
        script: |
          echo $FCI_KEYSTORE | base64 --decode > /tmp/keystore.keystore
          cat >> "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/key.properties" <<EOF
          storePassword=$FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD
          keyPassword=$FCI_KEY_PASSWORD
          keyAlias=$FCI_KEY_ALIAS
          storeFile=/tmp/keystore.keystore
          EOF
      - name: Set up local.properties
        script: |
          echo "flutter.sdk=$HOME/programs/flutter" > "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/local.properties"
      - name: Get Flutter packages
        script: |
          cd . && flutter packages pub get
      - name: Flutter analyze
        script: |
          cd . && flutter analyze
      - name: Flutter unit tests
        script: |
          cd . && flutter test
        ignore_failure: true          
      - name: Install pods
        script: |
          find . -name "Podfile" -execdir pod install \;
      - name: Build APK with Flutter  
        script: |
          cd . && flutter build apk --release --build-name=1.0.0 --build-number=$(($(google-play get-latest-build-number --package-name "$PACKAGE_NAME" --tracks="$GOOGLE_PLAY_TRACK") + 1))
    artifacts:
      - build/**/outputs/bundle/**/*.aab
      - build/**/outputs/apk/**/*.apk
      - build/**/outputs/**/mapping.txt
      - flutter_drive.log
    publishing:
      # See the following link for details about email publishing - https://docs.codemagic.io/publishing-yaml/distribution/#email
      email:
        recipients:
          - user_1@example.com
          - user_2@example.com
        notify:
          success: true     # To receive a notification when a build succeeds
          failure: false    # To not receive a notification when a build fails
      slack: 
        # See the following link about how to connect your Slack account - https://docs.codemagic.io/publishing-yaml/distribution/#slack
        channel: '#builds'
        notify_on_build_start: true   # To receive a notification when a build starts
        notify:
          success: true               # To receive a notification when a build succeeds
          failure: false              # To not receive a notification when a build fails
      google_play:
        credentials: $GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS
        track: $GOOGLE_PLAY_TRACK
        in_app_update_priority: 0
```

## iOS builds

{{<notebox>}}
You can find an up-to-date codemagic.yaml Flutter iOS workflow in [Codemagic Sample Projects](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/codemagic-sample-projects/blob/main/flutter/flutter-yaml-demo-project/codemagic.yaml#L72).
{{</notebox>}}

### Building an unsigned application .app

```yaml
- flutter build ios --debug --no-codesign
```

### Building a signed iOS application archive .ipa

{{<notebox>}}
Codemagic uses the [xcode-project](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/xcode-project/README.md#xcode-project) to prepare iOS application code signing properties for build.
{{</notebox>}}

```yaml
- xcode-project use-profiles
- xcode-project build-ipa --workspace ios/Runner.xcworkspace --scheme Runner
```

Read more about the different schemes in [Apple's documentation](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/dev0bee46f46).

**Note:** If you are using Flutter version 1.24.0-6.0 or higher, the recommended command for building an .ipa archive is `flutter build ipa` as shown below. Read more about it in [Flutter's documentation](https://flutter.dev/docs/deployment/ios#create-a-build-archive).

```yaml
- xcode-project use-profiles
- flutter build ipa --export-options-plist=/Users/builder/export_options.plist
```

### Example codemagic.yaml Flutter iOS workflow

```yaml
workflows:
  ios-workflow:
    name: iOS Workflow
    # instance_type: mac_mini
    max_build_duration: 120
    environment:
      vars:
        XCODE_WORKSPACE: "Runner.xcworkspace"
        XCODE_SCHEME: "Runner"                
        # https://docs.codemagic.io/code-signing-yaml/signing-ios/
        APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID: Encrypted(...) # <-- Put your encrypted App Store Connect Issuer Id here 
        APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER: Encrypted(...) # <-- Put your encrypted App Store Connect Key Identifier here 
        APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY: Encrypted(...) # <-- Put your encrypted App Store Connect Private Key here 
        CERTIFICATE_PRIVATE_KEY: Encrypted(...) # <-- Put your encrypted Certificate Private Key here 
        BUNDLE_ID: "io.codemagic.flutteryaml" # <-- Put your bundle id here
        APP_STORE_ID: 1111111111 # <-- Use the TestFlight Apple id number (An automatically generated ID assigned to your app) found under General > App Information > Apple ID. 
      flutter: stable
      xcode: latest
      cocoapods: default
    scripts:
      - name: Set up keychain to be used for codesigning using Codemagic CLI 'keychain' command
        script: |
          keychain initialize
      - name: Fetch signing files
        script: |
          app-store-connect fetch-signing-files $BUNDLE_ID --type IOS_APP_STORE --create
      - name: Use system default keychain
        script: |
          keychain add-certificates
      - name: Set up code signing settings on Xcode project
        script: |
          xcode-project use-profiles
      - name: Get Flutter packages
        script: |
          cd . && flutter packages pub get
      - name: Flutter analyze
        script: |
          cd . && flutter analyze
      - name: Flutter unit tests
        script: |
          cd . && flutter test
        ignore_failure: true          
      - name: Install pods
        script: |
          find . -name "Podfile" -execdir pod install \;
      - name: Flutter build ipa and automatic versioning
        script: |
          flutter build ipa --release \
          --build-name=1.0.0 \
          --build-number=$(($(app-store-connect get-latest-testflight-build-number "$APP_STORE_ID") + 1)) \
          --export-options-plist=/Users/builder/export_options.plist
    artifacts:
      - build/ios/ipa/*.ipa
      - /tmp/xcodebuild_logs/*.log
      - flutter_drive.log
    publishing:
      # See the following link for details about email publishing - https://docs.codemagic.io/publishing-yaml/distribution/#email
      email:
        recipients:
          - user_1@example.com
          - user_2@example.com
        notify:
          success: true     # To receive a notification when a build succeeds
          failure: false    # To not receive a notification when a build fails
      slack: 
        # See the following link about how to connect your Slack account - https://docs.codemagic.io/publishing-yaml/distribution/#slack
        channel: "#builds"
        notify_on_build_start: true   # To receive a notification when a build starts
        notify:
          success: true               # To receive a notification when a build succeeds
          failure: false              # To not receive a notification when a build fails
      app_store_connect:   # https://docs.codemagic.io/publishing-yaml/distribution              
        api_key: $APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY   
        key_id: $APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER
        issuer_id: 21d78e2f-b8ad-...  # Alphanumeric value that identifies who created the API key, can also reference environment variable such as $APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID
       
     
```

## Web builds

```yaml
- name: Build web
  script: |
    flutter config --enable-web
    flutter build web --release
    cd build/web
    7z a -r ../web.zip ./*
```

## Testing, code signing and publishing a Flutter app

To test, code sign and publish a Flutter app:

* Testing examples for a flutter app can be found [here](../testing-yaml/testing/#flutter-test).
* All iOS and Android applications need to be signed before release. Different script examples are available [here](../publishing-yaml/distribution/).
* All generated artifacts can be published to external services. The available integrations currently are email, Slack, Google Play and App Store Connect. It is also possible to publish elsewhere with [custom scripts](../getting-started/yaml#scripts). Script examples for different options are available [here](../publishing-yaml/distribution/#publishing-a-flutter-package-to-pubdev).

Commit message:

Fix: Flutter project - Env group variables (#506)
* Fix: Flutter project - Env group variables

Fix: Flutter project - Env group variables

* Update building-a-flutter-app.md

content/yaml-quick-start/building-a-flutter-app.md, after:

---
title: Building a Flutter app
description: How to build a Flutter app with codemagic.yaml
weight: 4
aliases:	
  - '../yaml/building-a-flutter-app'
  - '/getting-started/building-a-flutter-app'
startLineBreak: true
---

## Setting up a Flutter project

The apps you have available in Codemagic are listed on the Applications page. Click **Add application** to add a new app.

1. On the Applications page, click **Set up build** next to the app you want to start building. 
2. On the popup, select **Flutter App** as the project type and click **Continue**.
3. Then you can choose to either set up your builds in the **codemagic.yaml** file or select the **Workflow Editor** tab to configure the builds in the UI. New Flutter apps come with the **Workflow Editor** by default and it can be switched to **codemagic.yaml** in app settings by clicking the **Switch to YAML configuration** button. Exporting current configuration as **codemagic.yaml** is possible if the checkbox is marked in the pop-up page.

`codemagic.yaml` is a highly customizable configuration file that you can use to build, test and publish Flutter apps, widgets, and Flutter or Dart packages. The Workflow Editor is a quick way to get started building standard Flutter applications.

You can simultaneously set up workflows both in `codemagic.yaml` and the Workflow Editor. However, when a `codemagic.yaml` is detected in the repository, it is automatically used for configuring builds that are triggered in response to the events defined in the file and any configuration in the Flutter workflow editor is ignored.

{{<notebox>}}
For documentation on building Flutter projects using the workflow editor, please refer to [**Building Flutter apps via the workflow editor**](../flutter-configuration/flutter-projects).
{{</notebox>}}

## Building with YAML

1. In order to use `codemagic.yaml` for build configuration in Codemagic, commit the file to the root directory of your repository.
2. Back in app settings in Codemagic, select the **`codemagic.yaml`** tab.
3. Scan for the `codemagic.yaml` file by selecting a **branch** to scan and clicking the **Check for configuration file** button at the top of the page. Note that you can have different configuration files in different branches.
4. If a `codemagic.yaml` file is found in that branch, you can click **Start your first build** and select the **branch** and **workflow** to build.
5. Finally, click **Start new build** to build the app.

## Android builds

{{<notebox>}}
You can find an up-to-date codemagic.yaml Flutter Android workflow in [Codemagic Sample Projects](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/codemagic-sample-projects/blob/main/flutter/flutter-yaml-demo-project/codemagic.yaml#L2).
{{</notebox>}}

Set up local properties

```yaml
- echo "flutter.sdk=$HOME/programs/flutter" > "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/local.properties"
```
### Building an app bundle

```yaml
- flutter build appbundle --release
```

### Building .apk for debug builds

```yaml
- flutter build apk --debug
```

### Building universal .apk(s) from existing app bundle(s) with user-specified keys

If your app settings in Codemagic have building Android App Bundles enabled, we will automatically include a script for generating a signed `app-universal.apk` during the YAML export. If you are creating a YAML file from a scratch, add the following script to receive the .apk file(s):

```yaml
- android-app-bundle build-universal-apk \
  --bundle 'project_directory/build/**/outputs/**/*.aab' \
  --ks /tmp/keystore.keystore \
  --ks-pass $FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD \
  --ks-key-alias $FCI_KEY_ALIAS \
  --key-pass $FCI_KEY_PASSWORD
```

Please make sure to wrap the `--bundle` pattern in single quotes. If the `--bundle` option is not specified, default glob pattern `**/*.aab` will be used.


More information about Android code signing can be found [here](../code-signing-yaml/signing-android).

{{<notebox>}}
Codemagic uses the [android-app-bundle](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/tree/master/docs/android-app-bundle#android-app-bundle) utility to build universal .apk files from Android App Bundles.
{{</notebox>}}

### Example codemagic.yaml Flutter Android workflow

```yaml
workflows:
  android-workflow:
    name: Android Workflow
    max_build_duration: 120
    environment:
      group:
        - keystore_credentials # <-- (Includes: FCI_KEYSTORE, FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD, FCI_KEY_PASSWORD, FCI_KEY_ALIAS)
        - google_play # <-- (Includes: GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS)
        - other
        # Add the above group environment variables in Codemagic UI (either in Application/Team variables) - https://docs.codemagic.io/variables/environment-variable-groups/
      vars:
        FCI_KEYSTORE_PATH: /tmp/keystore.keystore
        PACKAGE_NAME: "io.codemagic.flutteryaml" # <-- Put your package name here
        GOOGLE_PLAY_TRACK: "alpha" # <-- This must be "alpha" or above.  
      flutter: stable
      xcode: latest
      cocoapods: default
    scripts:
      - name: Set up key properties
        script: |
          echo $FCI_KEYSTORE | base64 --decode > /tmp/keystore.keystore
          cat >> "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/key.properties" <<EOF
          storePassword=$FCI_KEYSTORE_PASSWORD
          keyPassword=$FCI_KEY_PASSWORD
          keyAlias=$FCI_KEY_ALIAS
          storeFile=/tmp/keystore.keystore
          EOF
      - name: Set up local.properties
        script: |
          echo "flutter.sdk=$HOME/programs/flutter" > "$FCI_BUILD_DIR/android/local.properties"
      - name: Get Flutter packages
        script: |
          cd . && flutter packages pub get
      - name: Flutter analyze
        script: |
          cd . && flutter analyze
      - name: Flutter unit tests
        script: |
          cd . && flutter test
        ignore_failure: true          
      - name: Install pods
        script: |
          find . -name "Podfile" -execdir pod install \;
      - name: Build APK with Flutter  
        script: |
          cd . && flutter build apk --release --build-name=1.0.0 --build-number=$(($(google-play get-latest-build-number --package-name "$PACKAGE_NAME" --tracks="$GOOGLE_PLAY_TRACK") + 1))
    artifacts:
      - build/**/outputs/bundle/**/*.aab
      - build/**/outputs/apk/**/*.apk
      - build/**/outputs/**/mapping.txt
      - flutter_drive.log
    publishing:
      # See the following link for details about email publishing - https://docs.codemagic.io/publishing-yaml/distribution/#email
      email:
        recipients:
          - user_1@example.com
          - user_2@example.com
        notify:
          success: true     # To receive a notification when a build succeeds
          failure: false    # To not receive a notification when a build fails
      slack: 
        # See the following link about how to connect your Slack account - https://docs.codemagic.io/publishing-yaml/distribution/#slack
        channel: '#builds'
        notify_on_build_start: true   # To receive a notification when a build starts
        notify:
          success: true               # To receive a notification when a build succeeds
          failure: false              # To not receive a notification when a build fails
      google_play:
        credentials: $GCLOUD_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_CREDENTIALS
        track: $GOOGLE_PLAY_TRACK
        in_app_update_priority: 0
```

## iOS builds

{{<notebox>}}
You can find an up-to-date codemagic.yaml Flutter iOS workflow in [Codemagic Sample Projects](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/codemagic-sample-projects/blob/main/flutter/flutter-yaml-demo-project/codemagic.yaml#L72).
{{</notebox>}}

### Building an unsigned application .app

```yaml
- flutter build ios --debug --no-codesign
```

### Building a signed iOS application archive .ipa

{{<notebox>}}
Codemagic uses the [xcode-project](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/xcode-project/README.md#xcode-project) to prepare iOS application code signing properties for build.
{{</notebox>}}

```yaml
- xcode-project use-profiles
- xcode-project build-ipa --workspace ios/Runner.xcworkspace --scheme Runner
```

Read more about the different schemes in [Apple's documentation](https://help.apple.com/xcode/mac/current/#/dev0bee46f46).

**Note:** If you are using Flutter version 1.24.0-6.0 or higher, the recommended command for building an .ipa archive is `flutter build ipa` as shown below. Read more about it in [Flutter's documentation](https://flutter.dev/docs/deployment/ios#create-a-build-archive).

```yaml
- xcode-project use-profiles
- flutter build ipa --export-options-plist=/Users/builder/export_options.plist
```

### Example codemagic.yaml Flutter iOS workflow

```yaml
workflows:
  ios-workflow:
    name: iOS Workflow
    # instance_type: mac_mini
    max_build_duration: 120
    environment:
      groups:
        - app_store_credentials # <-- (APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID, APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER, APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER, APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY, CERTIFICATE_PRIVATE_KEY) - https://docs.codemagic.io/code-signing-yaml/signing-ios/
        - other
        # Add the above group environment variables in Codemagic UI (either in Application/Team variables) - https://docs.codemagic.io/variables/environment-variable-groups/
      vars:
        XCODE_WORKSPACE: "Runner.xcworkspace"
        XCODE_SCHEME: "Runner"                
        BUNDLE_ID: "io.codemagic.flutteryaml" # <-- Put your bundle id here
        APP_STORE_ID: 1111111111 # <-- Use the TestFlight Apple id number (An automatically generated ID assigned to your app) found under General > App Information > Apple ID. 
      flutter: stable
      xcode: latest
      cocoapods: default
    scripts:
      - name: Set up keychain to be used for codesigning using Codemagic CLI 'keychain' command
        script: |
          keychain initialize
      - name: Fetch signing files
        script: |
          app-store-connect fetch-signing-files $BUNDLE_ID --type IOS_APP_STORE --create
      - name: Use system default keychain
        script: |
          keychain add-certificates
      - name: Set up code signing settings on Xcode project
        script: |
          xcode-project use-profiles
      - name: Get Flutter packages
        script: |
          cd . && flutter packages pub get
      - name: Flutter analyze
        script: |
          cd . && flutter analyze
      - name: Flutter unit tests
        script: |
          cd . && flutter test
        ignore_failure: true          
      - name: Install pods
        script: |
          find . -name "Podfile" -execdir pod install \;
      - name: Flutter build ipa and automatic versioning
        script: |
          flutter build ipa --release \
          --build-name=1.0.0 \
          --build-number=$(($(app-store-connect get-latest-testflight-build-number "$APP_STORE_ID") + 1)) \
          --export-options-plist=/Users/builder/export_options.plist
    artifacts:
      - build/ios/ipa/*.ipa
      - /tmp/xcodebuild_logs/*.log
      - flutter_drive.log
    publishing:
      # See the following link for details about email publishing - https://docs.codemagic.io/publishing-yaml/distribution/#email
      email:
        recipients:
          - user_1@example.com
          - user_2@example.com
        notify:
          success: true     # To receive a notification when a build succeeds
          failure: false    # To not receive a notification when a build fails
      slack: 
        # See the following link about how to connect your Slack account - https://docs.codemagic.io/publishing-yaml/distribution/#slack
        channel: "#builds"
        notify_on_build_start: true   # To receive a notification when a build starts
        notify:
          success: true               # To receive a notification when a build succeeds
          failure: false              # To not receive a notification when a build fails
      app_store_connect:   # https://docs.codemagic.io/publishing-yaml/distribution              
        api_key: $APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY   
        key_id: $APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER
        issuer_id: 21d78e2f-b8ad-...  # Alphanumeric value that identifies who created the API key, can also reference environment variable such as $APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID
       
     
```

## Web builds

```yaml
- name: Build web
  script: |
    flutter config --enable-web
    flutter build web --release
    cd build/web
    7z a -r ../web.zip ./*
```

## Testing, code signing and publishing a Flutter app

To test, code sign and publish a Flutter app:

* Testing examples for a flutter app can be found [here](../testing-yaml/testing/#flutter-test).
* All iOS and Android applications need to be signed before release. Different script examples are available [here](../publishing-yaml/distribution/).
* All generated artifacts can be published to external services. The available integrations currently are email, Slack, Google Play and App Store Connect. It is also possible to publish elsewhere with [custom scripts](../getting-started/yaml#scripts). Script examples for different options are available [here](../publishing-yaml/distribution/#publishing-a-flutter-package-to-pubdev).
