content/yaml-publishing/google-cloud-storage.md, before:

---
title: Google Cloud Storage
description: How to publish build artifacts to Google Cloud Storage using codemagic.yaml
weight: 14
---

In order to publish your generated artifacts to Google Cloud Storage:

1. Log in to your Google Cloud platform [console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).

2. Create a new service account under **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts**.Find more information about how to create a service account [here](https://docs.codemagic.io/knowledge-base/google-services-authentication/#creating-a-service-account).

3. Generate a key as JSON for the service account. This will cause a JSON key file to be downloaded.

4. In the Codemagic web app you should create an environment variable called **GCLOUD_STORAGE_KEY** and add the contents of the Service Account JSON as its value. More information about environment variable groups can be found [here](https://docs.codemagic.io/variables/environment-variable-groups/).

5. Go to your Google Cloud Platform console and open Cloud Storage. Make a note of the name of the bucket you want to upload to or create a new bucket.

6. This step is optional, in case you have an existing bucket with necessary permissions.

   To set up permission go to the permission section of the bucket, Click on **+ Add** and add the service account details with the role of Storage Object Creator and click save.

   ![Google Cloud Storage Permission](../uploads/storage-object-creator-role.png)

7. Replace `gs://YOUR_BUCKET_NAME` with your own bucket name in the following script and add it as a post-publishing script or create a new script step if you are using codemagic.yaml:

```
echo $GCLOUD_STORAGE_KEY > $CM_BUILD_DIR/gcloud_storage_key.json
gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file $CM_BUILD_DIR/gcloud_storage_key.json
gsutil cp $CM_BUILD_DIR/app/build/outputs/**/*.apk gs://YOUR_BUCKET_NAME
```

After completing steps above, you can go to your Cloud Storage account and check if the object is uploaded.

Commit message:

Codemagic ci cd master (#982)
* Big batch of changes

* catch up with master branch changes

* more docs changes

* Adjusted the Flutter side of the main menu

* Remove 'Advanced Configuration>Publishing' by moving items to 'Adv.Conf>Others'

* finish updating FWE menu items

* more updates; missing only the QuickStart now

content/yaml-publishing/google-cloud-storage.md, after:

---
title: Google Cloud Storage
description: How to publish build artifacts to Google Cloud Storage using codemagic.yaml
weight: 12
---

In order to publish your generated artifacts to Google Cloud Storage:

1. Log in to your Google Cloud platform [console](https://console.cloud.google.com/).

2. Create a new service account under **IAM & Admin > Service Accounts**.Find more information about how to create a service account [here](https://docs.codemagic.io/knowledge-base/google-services-authentication/#creating-a-service-account).

3. Generate a JSON key for the service account and download it.
<br><br>

4. Open your Codemagic app settings, and go to the **Environment variables** tab.
5. Enter `GCLOUD_STORAGE_KEY` as the **_Variable name_**.
6. Copy and paste the content of the JSON key file as **_Variable value_**.
7. Enter the variable group name, e.g. **_google_credentials_**. Click the button to create the group.
8. Make sure the **Secure** option is selected.
9. Click the **Add** button to add the variable.
<br><br>

10. Go to your Google Cloud Platform console and open Cloud Storage. Make a note of the name of the bucket you want to upload to or create a new bucket.

11. In case of an existing bucket, make sure that necessary permissions are configured.

   To set up permissions go to the permission section of the bucket, Click on **+ Add** and add the service account details with the role of Storage Object Creator and click save.

   ![Google Cloud Storage Permission](../uploads/storage-object-creator-role.png)

<br>

12. Configure your `codemagic.yaml` by adding the following script in your post-publishing step.Replace `gs://YOUR_BUCKET_NAME` with your own bucket name.

{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
publishing:
  scripts:
    - name: Publish to Google Cloud
      script: | 
        echo $GCLOUD_STORAGE_KEY > $CM_BUILD_DIR/gcloud_storage_key.json
        gcloud auth activate-service-account --key-file $CM_BUILD_DIR/gcloud_storage_key.json
        gsutil cp $CM_BUILD_DIR/app/build/outputs/**/*.apk gs://YOUR_BUCKET_NAME
{{< /highlight >}}


After completing steps above, you can go to your Cloud Storage account and check if the object is uploaded.
