content/building/access-private-git-submodules.md, before:

---
description: Access any private Git submodules or dependencies in Codemagic
title: Accessing private repositories
weight: 4
---

If your project requires accessing any private Git submodules or dependencies, you'll need to grant Codemagic access to them in order to build successfully. 
You can do that by saving the SSH key to your repository as a secure [environment variable](https://docs.codemagic.io/building/environment-variables/), i.e. `SSH_KEY`. All environment variables whose name has the suffix `_SSH_KEY` will be automatically added to the SSH agent and will be ready for use during the whole build process.

1.  Save the SSH key (e.g. `SSH_KEY`) for accessing the repository as an environment variable. Make sure to check **Secure**.

        SSH_KEY = -----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
        ...
        -----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----

2.  If you wish to use a **custom** environment variable name without the suffix `_SSH_KEY`, add the following **post-clone** script to add the key to the SSH agent.

        #!/usr/bin/env sh
        echo "${CUSTOM_SSH_KEY_NAME}" > /tmp/ssh_key
        chmod 600 /tmp/ssh_key
        eval `ssh-agent -s`
        ssh-add /tmp/ssh_key

Commit message:

Accessing private dependencies (#42)
* Update ssh key info

* Add info about generating ssh key

* Add info about SSH key generation

* Fix numbering

* Add links to gh, bb, gl

content/building/access-private-git-submodules.md, after:

---
description: Access any private Git submodules or dependencies in Codemagic
title: Accessing private repositories
weight: 4
---

If your project requires accessing any private Git submodules or dependencies, you'll need to grant Codemagic access to them in order to build successfully.

1. [Create a SSH key pair](#generating-a-ssh-key) for use with Codemagic. Note that the SSH key **cannot** be password-protected.
2. Add the **public key** to your repository settings. See how to do that on [GitHub](https://help.github.com/en/github/authenticating-to-github/adding-a-new-ssh-key-to-your-github-account), [Bitbucket](https://confluence.atlassian.com/bitbucket/use-access-keys-294486051.html), [GitLab](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ssh/README.html#adding-an-ssh-key-to-your-gitlab-account).
3. Then in Codemagic, add the **private key** for accessing the repository as an [environment variable](https://docs.codemagic.io/building/environment-variables/). Make sure to check **Secure**. For example:

        SSH_KEY = -----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
        ...
        -----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----

    {{% notebox %}}
Note that the `-----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----` line needs to be followed by an empty line for the key to be usable.
{{% /notebox %}}

All environment variables whose name has the suffix `_SSH_KEY` will be automatically added to the SSH agent and will be ready for use during the whole build process. Check the `Preparing build machine` step in build logs to verify that the key has been successfully added to the SSH agent.

If you wish to use a **custom** environment variable name without the suffix `_SSH_KEY`, add the following **post-clone** script to add the key to the SSH agent.

        #!/usr/bin/env sh
        echo "${CUSTOM_SSH_KEY_NAME}" > /tmp/ssh_key
        chmod 600 /tmp/ssh_key
        eval `ssh-agent -s`
        ssh-add /tmp/ssh_key

## Generating a SSH key

Different repository hosting services have different minimum requirements for the length of the SSH key, varying from 2048 bits to 4096 bits. We recommend creating a 4096 bit key for increased security. Run the script below in your terminal to create a 4096 bit SSH key:

        ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 -f ~/Desktop/codemagic_ssh_key -q -N ""

This will create two new files on your desktop: `codemagic_ssh_key` (private key) and `codemagic_ssh_key.pub` (public key).
