content/building/encrypting.md, before:

---
title: Encrypting sensitive data
description: Encrypt your credentials and key files
weight: 3
---

If you wish to store sensitive information, such as login details or API keys, in environment variables or in your configuration file, it is important to encrypt the data so as to not expose it. You can easily encrypt values and files using the encryption interface in Codemagic.

{{<notebox>}}
For security reasons, encrypted environment variables work only in the team where they were created. When moving an app from your personal account to a team or from one team to another, you should re-encrypt the variables.
{{</notebox>}}

1. Click open your app in Codemagic.
2. Click **Encrypt variables** on the YAML editor window (or click **Encrypt environment variables** on the right sidebar in the **Configuration as code** section if you are using the Flutter workflow editor).
3. A popup window appears. Paste the value of the variable in the field or upload it as a file.
4. Click **Encrypt**. 
5. Copy the encrypted value and paste it as the value of the variable.

The encrypted value will look something like this:

```
Encrypted(Z0FBQUFBQmRyY1FLWXIwVEhqdWphdjRhQ0xubkdoOGJ2bThkNmh4YmdXbFB3S2wyNTN2OERoV3c0YWU0OVBERG42d3Rfc2N0blNDX3FfblZxbUc4d2pWUHJBSVppbXNXNC04U1VqcGlnajZ2VnJVMVFWc3lZZ289)
```

Note that when you upload a **file** for encryption, it is encoded to `base64` and would have to be decoded during the build. If you want to encrypt a file (plaintext, JSON, plist), copy-paste the contents of it to the encryption interface and use the encrypted value in your configuration.

Writing the base64-encoded environment variable to a file can be done like this:

```yaml
scripts:
  - echo $MY_FILE | base64 --decode > my-file.json
```

Commit message:

Refactor docs to remove reference to file UI encrypting (#398)
* Update video-resources.md

* Create base64-encode-decode.md

* Update encrypting.md

* Update base64-encode-decode.md

* Update signing-ios.md

* Update signing-ios.md

* Delete base64-encode-decode.md

* Update video-resources.md

* Update encrypting.md

* Update signing-ios.md

* Update building-a-snap-package.md

* Update building-a-snap-package.md

* Update google-play-api.md

* Update google-play-api.md

* Update signing-android.md

* Update build-versioning.md

* Update signing-macos.md

* Delete google_play_yaml_two.png

* Update content/building/encrypting.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/building/encrypting.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/building/encrypting.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update content/code-signing-yaml/signing-ios.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update encrypting.md

* Update content/building/encrypting.md

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: helinanever <36853001+helinanever@users.noreply.github.com>

content/building/encrypting.md, after:

---
title: Encrypting sensitive data
description: Encrypt your credentials and key files
weight: 3
---

If you wish to store sensitive information, such as login details or API keys, in environment variables or in your configuration file, it is important to encrypt the data so as to not expose it. You can easily encrypt values and files using the encryption interface in Codemagic.

{{<notebox>}}
For security reasons, encrypted environment variables work only in the team where they were created. When moving an app from your personal account to a team or from one team to another, you should re-encrypt the variables.
{{</notebox>}}

1. Click open your app in Codemagic.
2. Click **Encrypt variables** on the YAML editor window (or click **Encrypt environment variables** on the right sidebar in the **Configuration as code** section if you are using the Flutter workflow editor).
3. A popup window appears. Paste the value of the variable in the field or upload it as a file.
4. Click **Encrypt**. 
5. Copy the encrypted value and paste it as the value of the variable.

The encrypted value will look something like this:

```
Encrypted(Z0FBQUFBQmRyY1FLWXIwVEhqdWphdjRhQ0xubkdoOGJ2bThkNmh4YmdXbFB3S2wyNTN2OERoV3c0YWU0OVBERG42d3Rfc2N0blNDX3FfblZxbUc4d2pWUHJBSVppbXNXNC04U1VqcGlnajZ2VnJVMVFWc3lZZ289)
```

If you wish to encrypt a **file** to add to your workflow, you will first have to base64 encode it and then encrypt the received string. To use the file, you will have to decode it during the build.

On macOS, in order to base64 encode a file and copy the contents to your clipboard, you can run the following command in the terminal:

  ```bash
  cat your_file_name.extension | base64 | pbcopy 
  ```
After the command has been run, you can paste the string from your clipboard to our encryption tool and then save the encrypted string to an environment variable.

Finally, base64 decode it during build time in your scripts section using the following command:

  ```bash
  echo $YOUR_ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE | base64 --decode > /path/to/decode/to/your_file_name.extension
  ```
