content/partials/yaml-publishing-app-store-connect-environment-variables.md, before:

#### Configuring environment variables

{{< include "/partials/quickstart/publish-ios-environment-variables.md" >}}

#### Distribution to App Store Connect

The following snippet demonstrates how to authenticate with and upload the IPA to App Store Connect, submit the build to beta tester groups in TestFlight and configure releasing the app to App Store. See additional configuration options for App Store Connect publishing [here](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/app-store-connect/publish.md).

{{<notebox>}}**Note:** Please note that you will need to create an **app record** in App Store Connect before you can automate publishing with Codemagic. It is recommended to upload the very first version of the app manually. Suppose you have set up an **app record** but have not manually uploaded the app's first version. In that case, manual configuration of the settings must be done on App Store Connect after the build is complete, such as uploading the required screenshots and providing the values for the privacy policy URL and application category. {{</notebox>}}


{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
publishing:
  app_store_connect:
    # Contents of the API key saved as a secure environment variable:
    api_key: $APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY 
    
    # Alphanumeric value that identifies the API key, 
    # can also reference environment variable such as $APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER
    key_id: 3MD9688D9K 

    # Alphanumeric value that identifies who created the API key,
    # can also reference environment variable such as $APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID
    issuer_id: 21d78e2f-b8ad-...
    
    # Configuration related to TestFlight (optional)

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Whether or not to submit the uploaded
    # build to TestFlight beta review. Required for distributing to beta groups.
    # Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    submit_to_testflight: true 

    # Specify the names of beta tester groups that will get access to the build 
    # once it has passed beta review.
    beta_groups: 
      - group name 1
      - group name 2

    # Configuration related to App Store (optional)

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Whether or not to submit the uploaded
    # build to App Store review. Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    submit_to_app_store: true
    
    # Optional, defaults to MANUAL. Supported values: MANUAL, AFTER_APPROVAL or SCHEDULED
    release_type: SCHEDULED

    # Optional. Timezone-aware ISO8601 timestamp with hour precision when scheduling
    # the release. This can be only used when release type is set to SCHEDULED.
    # It cannot be set to a date in the past.
    earliest_release_date: 2021-12-01T14:00:00+00:00 
    
    # Optional. The name of the person or entity that owns the exclusive rights
    # to your app, preceded by the year the rights were obtained.
    copyright: 2021 Nevercode Ltd
{{< /highlight >}}

{{<notebox>}}
**Note:** To use different Apple Developer Portal accounts for publishing your iOS apps, set up separate workflows.
{{</notebox>}}

Commit message:

Add option to expire previous builds and cancel previous submissions (#1210)
* Add option to expire previous builds and cancel previous submissions

* Add more details to expire_previous_builds and cancel_previous_submissions

* Simplify description

* Retire expire-builds in favor of expire-build-submitted-for-review

content/partials/yaml-publishing-app-store-connect-environment-variables.md, after:

#### Configuring environment variables

{{< include "/partials/quickstart/publish-ios-environment-variables.md" >}}

#### Distribution to App Store Connect

The following snippet demonstrates how to authenticate with and upload the IPA to App Store Connect, submit the build to beta tester groups in TestFlight and configure releasing the app to App Store. See additional configuration options for App Store Connect publishing [here](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/app-store-connect/publish.md).

{{<notebox>}}**Note:** Please note that you will need to create an **app record** in App Store Connect before you can automate publishing with Codemagic. It is recommended to upload the very first version of the app manually. Suppose you have set up an **app record** but have not manually uploaded the app's first version. In that case, manual configuration of the settings must be done on App Store Connect after the build is complete, such as uploading the required screenshots and providing the values for the privacy policy URL and application category. {{</notebox>}}


{{< highlight yaml "style=paraiso-dark">}}
publishing:
  app_store_connect:
    # Contents of the API key saved as a secure environment variable:
    api_key: $APP_STORE_CONNECT_PRIVATE_KEY 
    
    # Alphanumeric value that identifies the API key, 
    # can also reference environment variable such as $APP_STORE_CONNECT_KEY_IDENTIFIER
    key_id: 3MD9688D9K 

    # Alphanumeric value that identifies who created the API key,
    # can also reference environment variable such as $APP_STORE_CONNECT_ISSUER_ID
    issuer_id: 21d78e2f-b8ad-...
    
    # Configuration related to TestFlight (optional)

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Whether or not to submit the uploaded
    # build to TestFlight beta review. Required for distributing to beta groups.
    # Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    submit_to_testflight: true 

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Set to true to automatically expire previous build in review or waiting for review in Testflight before
    # submitting a new build to beta review. Expired builds will no longer be available for testers.
    # Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    expire_build_submitted_for_review: true

    # Specify the names of beta tester groups that will get access to the build 
    # once it has passed beta review.
    beta_groups: 
      - group name 1
      - group name 2

    # Configuration related to App Store (optional)

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Whether or not to submit the uploaded
    # build to App Store review. Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    submit_to_app_store: true

    # Optional boolean, defaults to false. Set to true to cancel the previous 
    # submission (if applicable) when submitting a new build to App Store review.
    # This allows automatically submitting a new build for review if a previous submission exists.
    # Note: This action is performed during post-processing.
    cancel_previous_submissions: true
    
    # Optional, defaults to MANUAL. Supported values: MANUAL, AFTER_APPROVAL or SCHEDULED
    release_type: SCHEDULED

    # Optional. Timezone-aware ISO8601 timestamp with hour precision when scheduling
    # the release. This can be only used when release type is set to SCHEDULED.
    # It cannot be set to a date in the past.
    earliest_release_date: 2021-12-01T14:00:00+00:00 
    
    # Optional. The name of the person or entity that owns the exclusive rights
    # to your app, preceded by the year the rights were obtained.
    copyright: 2021 Nevercode Ltd
{{< /highlight >}}

{{<notebox>}}
**Note:** To use different Apple Developer Portal accounts for publishing your iOS apps, set up separate workflows.
{{</notebox>}}
