content/specs/versions-macos-xcode-13-0.md, before:

---
description: A list of tools available out-of-the-box on Codemagic build machines.
title: macOS build machine specification (Xcode 13.0 - 13.2)
aliases:
  - '../releases-and-versions/versions4'
  - '../specs/versions4'
weight: 7
---

## Hardware

- Standard VM on Mac mini `2.3GHz Quad Core / 8GB`
- Premium VM on Mac Pro `3.7GHz Quad Core / 32GB`

## System

- System version `macOS 11.6.2 (20G314)`
- Kernel version `Darwin 20.6.0`
- Disk `322GB (Free Space: 137GB)`

## Pre-installed tools

- Android tools `/usr/local/share/android-sdk`
- Android NDK `23.1.7779620`
- aws `2.4.6`
- cocoapods `1.11.2`
- cordova `10.0.0`
- curl
- docker `20.10.2`
- fastlane `2.199.0`
- firebase `9.3.0`
- flutter `2.10.1 ($HOME/programs/flutter)`
- gem `3.2.33`
- gh `2.3.0`
- git `2.34.1`
- Google Cloud SDK `327.0.0`
- gradle `7.3.1`
- gsutil `4.58`
- homebrew `3.3.9`
- ionic `6.12.4`
- jq
- ktlint `0.43.2`
- node `14.15.5`
- npm `8.1.4`
- python `3.8.7`
- python3 `3.8.7`
- ruby `2.7.2p137`
- ssh
- sudo
- tar
- unzip
- wget
- yarn `1.22.17`
- yq
- zip

## Android emulators

- **emulator**

    - Device: `pixel_3a (Google)`
    - Path: `/Users/builder/.android/avd/emulator.avd`
    - Target: `Google Play (Google Inc.)`
    - Based on: `Android 10.0 (Q)`
    - Tag/API: `google_apis_playstore/x86`
    - Skin: `pixel_3a`
    - Sdcard: `512M`

## Java versions

- **17.0.1** JAVA_HOME: `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/zulu-17.jdk/Contents/Home`
- **16.0.2** JAVA_HOME: `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/zulu-16.jdk/Contents/Home`
- **11.0.13** (default) JAVA_HOME: `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/zulu-11.jdk/Contents/Home`
- **1.8.0_312** JAVA_HOME: `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/zulu-8.jdk/Contents/Home`

## Xcode 13.2.1 (13C100)

This is the Xcode version used by default when you select `13.2`, `13.2.1` or `latest` in build settings in the workflow
editor for Flutter apps or set Xcode version to the corresponding values in your codemagic.yaml file.
Other available versions are listed [here](#other-xcode-versions).

Xcode path: `/Applications/Xcode-13.2.1.app`

With Xcode `13.2.1` build version `13C100` the following runtimes and devices are installed:

### Runtimes

- iOS 14.5
- iOS 15.0
- iOS 15.2
- tvOS 14.5
- tvOS 15.0
- tvOS 15.2
- watchOS 7.4
- watchOS 8.0
- watchOS 8.3

### Devices

- Apple TV
- Apple TV 4K
- Apple TV 4K (2nd generation)
- Apple TV 4K (at 1080p)
- Apple TV 4K (at 1080p) (2nd generation)
- Apple Watch Series 5 - 40mm
- Apple Watch Series 5 - 44mm
- Apple Watch Series 6 - 40mm
- Apple Watch Series 6 - 44mm
- Apple Watch Series 7 - 41mm
- Apple Watch Series 7 - 45mm
- iPad (8th generation)
- iPad (9th generation)
- iPad Air (4th generation)
- iPad Pro (11-inch) (2nd generation)
- iPad Pro (11-inch) (3rd generation)
- iPad Pro (12.9-inch) (4th generation)
- iPad Pro (12.9-inch) (5th generation)
- iPad Pro (9.7-inch)
- iPad mini (6th generation)
- iPhone 11
- iPhone 11 Pro
- iPhone 11 Pro Max
- iPhone 12
- iPhone 12 Pro
- iPhone 12 Pro Max
- iPhone 12 mini
- iPhone 13
- iPhone 13 Pro
- iPhone 13 Pro Max
- iPhone 13 mini
- iPhone 8
- iPhone 8 Plus
- iPhone SE (2nd generation)
- iPod touch (7th generation)

## Other Xcode versions

- 13.1 (13A1030d) `/Applications/Xcode-13.1.app`
- 13.0 (13A233) `/Applications/Xcode-13.0.app`

Commit message:

Base image update @ 20-02-2022 (#734)
* Base image update @ 20-02-2022

* add aliases from unity specs

Co-authored-by: remarkov <remarkov@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Vladimir Markov <remarkov@users.noreply.github.com>

content/specs/versions-macos-xcode-13-0.md, after:

---
description: A list of tools available out-of-the-box on Codemagic build machines.
title: macOS build machine specification (Xcode 13.0 - 13.2 / Unity)
aliases:
  - '../releases-and-versions/versions4'
  - '../releases-and-versions/versions4-unity.md'
  - '../specs/versions4'
  - '../specs/versions4-unity.md'
  - '../specs/versions-macos-xcode-13-0-unity'
weight: 7
---

## Hardware

- Standard VM on Mac mini `2.3GHz Quad Core / 8GB`
- Premium VM on Mac Pro `3.7GHz Quad Core / 32GB`

## System

- System version `macOS 11.6.2 (20G314)`
- Kernel version `Darwin 20.6.0`
- Disk `322GB (Free Space: 116GB)`

## Pre-installed tools

- Android tools `/usr/local/share/android-sdk`
- Android NDK `23.1.7779620`
- aws `2.4.6`
- cocoapods `1.11.2`
- cordova `10.0.0`
- curl
- docker `20.10.2`
- fastlane `2.199.0`
- firebase `9.3.0`
- flutter `2.10.1 ($HOME/programs/flutter)`
- gem `3.2.33`
- gh `2.3.0`
- git `2.34.1`
- Google Cloud SDK `327.0.0`
- gradle `7.3.1`
- gsutil `4.58`
- homebrew `3.3.9`
- ionic `6.12.4`
- jq
- ktlint `0.43.2`
- node `14.15.5`
- npm `8.1.4`
- python `3.8.7`
- python3 `3.8.7`
- ruby `2.7.2p137`
- ssh
- sudo
- tar
- unzip
- wget
- yarn `1.22.17`
- yq
- zip

## Android emulators

- **emulator**

    - Device: `pixel_3a (Google)`
    - Path: `/Users/builder/.android/avd/emulator.avd`
    - Target: `Google Play (Google Inc.)`
    - Based on: `Android 10.0 (Q)`
    - Tag/API: `google_apis_playstore/x86`
    - Skin: `pixel_3a`
    - Sdcard: `512M`

## Java versions

- **17.0.1** JAVA_HOME: `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/zulu-17.jdk/Contents/Home`
- **16.0.2** JAVA_HOME: `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/zulu-16.jdk/Contents/Home`
- **11.0.13** (default) JAVA_HOME: `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/zulu-11.jdk/Contents/Home`
- **1.8.0_312** JAVA_HOME: `/Library/Java/JavaVirtualMachines/zulu-8.jdk/Contents/Home`

## Unity 2020.3.28f1

UNITY_HOME: `/Applications/Unity/Hub/Editor/2020.3.28f1/Unity.app`

Includes pre-installed modules for iOS, Android, macOS, Linux, Windows and WebGL build support.

## Xcode 13.2.1 (13C100)

This is the Xcode version used by default when you select `13.2`, `13.2.1` or `latest` in build settings in the workflow 
editor for Flutter apps or set Xcode version to `13.2`, `13.2.1` or `latest` in your codemagic.yaml file. 
Other available versions are listed [here](#other-xcode-versions).

Xcode path: `/Applications/Xcode-13.2.1.app`

With Xcode `13.2.1` build version `13C100` the following runtimes and devices are installed:

### Runtimes

- iOS 14.5
- iOS 15.0
- iOS 15.2
- tvOS 14.5
- tvOS 15.0
- tvOS 15.2
- watchOS 7.4
- watchOS 8.0
- watchOS 8.3

### Devices

- Apple TV
- Apple TV 4K
- Apple TV 4K (2nd generation)
- Apple TV 4K (at 1080p)
- Apple TV 4K (at 1080p) (2nd generation)
- Apple Watch Series 5 - 40mm
- Apple Watch Series 5 - 44mm
- Apple Watch Series 6 - 40mm
- Apple Watch Series 6 - 44mm
- Apple Watch Series 7 - 41mm
- Apple Watch Series 7 - 45mm
- iPad (8th generation)
- iPad (9th generation)
- iPad Air (4th generation)
- iPad Pro (11-inch) (2nd generation)
- iPad Pro (11-inch) (3rd generation)
- iPad Pro (12.9-inch) (4th generation)
- iPad Pro (12.9-inch) (5th generation)
- iPad Pro (9.7-inch)
- iPad mini (6th generation)
- iPhone 11
- iPhone 11 Pro
- iPhone 11 Pro Max
- iPhone 12
- iPhone 12 Pro
- iPhone 12 Pro Max
- iPhone 12 mini
- iPhone 13
- iPhone 13 Pro
- iPhone 13 Pro Max
- iPhone 13 mini
- iPhone 8
- iPhone 8 Plus
- iPhone SE (2nd generation)
- iPod touch (7th generation)

## Other Xcode versions

- 13.1 (13A1030d) `/Applications/Xcode-13.1.app`
- 13.0 (13A233) `/Applications/Xcode-13.0.app`
