content/specs/versions.md, before:

---
description: A list of tools available out-of-the-box on Codemagic build machines.
title: macOS build machine specification (Xcode 11.x)
aliases:
  - '../releases-and-versions/versions'
weight: 2
---

## Hardware

- Standard VM on Mac mini `2.3GHz Quad Core / 8GB`
- Premium VM on Mac Pro `3.7GHz Quad Core / 32GB`

## System

- System version `macOS 10.15.4 (19E287)`
- Kernel version `Darwin 19.4.0`
- Disk `322GB (Free Space: 62GB)`

## Pre-installed tools

- Android tools `$HOME/programs/android-sdk-macosx`
- aws `1.18.105`
- cocoapods `1.9.3`
- cordova `8.1.2`
- curl
- dart `2.9.2`
- docker `19.03.8`
- fastlane `2.157.3`
- firebase `7.6.2`
- flutter `1.22.6 ($HOME/programs/flutter)`
- gem `3.0.3`
- git `2.28.0`
- gradle `6.1.1`
- homebrew `2.4.16`
- ionic `4.11.0`
- jq
- node `12.14.0`
- npm `6.14.7`
- python `2.7.17`
- python3 `3.8.5`
- ruby `2.6.5p114`
- ssh
- sudo
- tar
- unzip
- wget
- yarn `1.22.5`
- yq
- zip

## Xcode 11.7 (11E801a)

This is the Xcode version used by default when you select `latest` in build settings. Other available versions are listed [here](#other-xcode-versions).

Xcode path: `/Applications/Xcode-11.7.app`

With Xcode `11.7` build version `11E801a` the following runtimes and devices are installed:

### Runtimes

- iOS 11.4
- iOS 12.4
- iOS 13.0
- iOS 13.1
- iOS 13.2
- iOS 13.3
- iOS 13.4
- iOS 13.5
- iOS 13.6
- iOS 13.7
- tvOS 11.3
- tvOS 11.4
- tvOS 12.0
- tvOS 13.0
- tvOS 13.2
- tvOS 13.3
- tvOS 13.4
- watchOS 6.2

### Devices

- iPhone 4s
- iPhone 5
- iPhone 5s
- iPhone 6 Plus
- iPhone 6
- iPhone 6s
- iPhone 6s Plus
- iPhone SE (1st generation)
- iPhone 7
- iPhone 7 Plus
- iPhone 8
- iPhone 8 Plus
- iPhone X
- iPhone Xs
- iPhone Xs Max
- iPhone Xʀ
- iPhone 11
- iPhone 11 Pro
- iPhone 11 Pro Max
- iPhone SE (2nd generation)
- iPad 2
- iPad Retina
- iPad Air
- iPad mini 2
- iPad mini 3
- iPad mini 4
- iPad Air 2
- iPad Pro (9.7-inch)
- iPad Pro (12.9-inch)
- iPad (5th generation)
- iPad Pro (12.9-inch) (2nd generation)
- iPad Pro (10.5-inch)
- iPad (6th generation)
- iPad (7th generation)
- iPad Pro (11-inch) (1st generation)
- iPad Pro (12.9-inch) (3rd generation)
- iPad Pro (11-inch) (2nd generation)
- iPad Pro (12.9-inch) (4th generation)
- iPad mini (5th generation)
- iPad Air (3rd generation)
- Apple TV
- Apple TV 4K
- Apple TV 4K (at 1080p)
- Apple Watch - 38mm
- Apple Watch - 42mm
- Apple Watch Series 2 - 38mm
- Apple Watch Series 2 - 42mm
- Apple Watch Series 3 - 38mm
- Apple Watch Series 3 - 42mm
- Apple Watch Series 4 - 40mm
- Apple Watch Series 4 - 44mm
- Apple Watch Series 5 - 40mm
- Apple Watch Series 5 - 44mm

## Other Xcode versions

- 11.6 (11E708) `/Applications/Xcode-11.6.app`
- 11.5 (11E608c) `/Applications/Xcode-11.5.app`
- 11.4.1 (11E503a) `/Applications/Xcode-11.4.app`
- 11.3.1 (11C505) `/Applications/Xcode-11.3.app`
- 11.2.1 (11B500) `/Applications/Xcode-11.2.1.app`
- 11.1 (11A1027) `/Applications/Xcode-11.1.app`
- 11.0 (11A420a) `/Applications/Xcode-11.app`

Commit message:

Update versions.md (#261)
using latest version does not point to 11.7, because it is not the latest and .yaml users cannot select the version in build settings. You need to fix the version in order to use 11.7. Changes to docs are made accordingly.

content/specs/versions.md, after:

---
description: A list of tools available out-of-the-box on Codemagic build machines.
title: macOS build machine specification (Xcode 11.x)
aliases:
  - '../releases-and-versions/versions'
weight: 2
---

## Hardware

- Standard VM on Mac mini `2.3GHz Quad Core / 8GB`
- Premium VM on Mac Pro `3.7GHz Quad Core / 32GB`

## System

- System version `macOS 10.15.4 (19E287)`
- Kernel version `Darwin 19.4.0`
- Disk `322GB (Free Space: 62GB)`

## Pre-installed tools

- Android tools `$HOME/programs/android-sdk-macosx`
- aws `1.18.105`
- cocoapods `1.9.3`
- cordova `8.1.2`
- curl
- dart `2.9.2`
- docker `19.03.8`
- fastlane `2.157.3`
- firebase `7.6.2`
- flutter `1.22.6 ($HOME/programs/flutter)`
- gem `3.0.3`
- git `2.28.0`
- gradle `6.1.1`
- homebrew `2.4.16`
- ionic `4.11.0`
- jq
- node `12.14.0`
- npm `6.14.7`
- python `2.7.17`
- python3 `3.8.5`
- ruby `2.6.5p114`
- ssh
- sudo
- tar
- unzip
- wget
- yarn `1.22.5`
- yq
- zip

## Xcode 11.7 (11E801a)

This is the Xcode version used by default when you select `11.7` in build settings in the UI for Flutter apps or set Xcode version to `11.7` in your codemagic.yaml file. Other available versions are listed [here](#other-xcode-versions).

Xcode path: `/Applications/Xcode-11.7.app`

With Xcode `11.7` build version `11E801a` the following runtimes and devices are installed:

### Runtimes

- iOS 11.4
- iOS 12.4
- iOS 13.0
- iOS 13.1
- iOS 13.2
- iOS 13.3
- iOS 13.4
- iOS 13.5
- iOS 13.6
- iOS 13.7
- tvOS 11.3
- tvOS 11.4
- tvOS 12.0
- tvOS 13.0
- tvOS 13.2
- tvOS 13.3
- tvOS 13.4
- watchOS 6.2

### Devices

- iPhone 4s
- iPhone 5
- iPhone 5s
- iPhone 6 Plus
- iPhone 6
- iPhone 6s
- iPhone 6s Plus
- iPhone SE (1st generation)
- iPhone 7
- iPhone 7 Plus
- iPhone 8
- iPhone 8 Plus
- iPhone X
- iPhone Xs
- iPhone Xs Max
- iPhone Xʀ
- iPhone 11
- iPhone 11 Pro
- iPhone 11 Pro Max
- iPhone SE (2nd generation)
- iPad 2
- iPad Retina
- iPad Air
- iPad mini 2
- iPad mini 3
- iPad mini 4
- iPad Air 2
- iPad Pro (9.7-inch)
- iPad Pro (12.9-inch)
- iPad (5th generation)
- iPad Pro (12.9-inch) (2nd generation)
- iPad Pro (10.5-inch)
- iPad (6th generation)
- iPad (7th generation)
- iPad Pro (11-inch) (1st generation)
- iPad Pro (12.9-inch) (3rd generation)
- iPad Pro (11-inch) (2nd generation)
- iPad Pro (12.9-inch) (4th generation)
- iPad mini (5th generation)
- iPad Air (3rd generation)
- Apple TV
- Apple TV 4K
- Apple TV 4K (at 1080p)
- Apple Watch - 38mm
- Apple Watch - 42mm
- Apple Watch Series 2 - 38mm
- Apple Watch Series 2 - 42mm
- Apple Watch Series 3 - 38mm
- Apple Watch Series 3 - 42mm
- Apple Watch Series 4 - 40mm
- Apple Watch Series 4 - 44mm
- Apple Watch Series 5 - 40mm
- Apple Watch Series 5 - 44mm

## Other Xcode versions

- 11.6 (11E708) `/Applications/Xcode-11.6.app`
- 11.5 (11E608c) `/Applications/Xcode-11.5.app`
- 11.4.1 (11E503a) `/Applications/Xcode-11.4.app`
- 11.3.1 (11C505) `/Applications/Xcode-11.3.app`
- 11.2.1 (11B500) `/Applications/Xcode-11.2.1.app`
- 11.1 (11A1027) `/Applications/Xcode-11.1.app`
- 11.0 (11A420a) `/Applications/Xcode-11.app`
