content/testing-yaml/testing.md, before:

---
title: Testing
description: Testing with YAML.
weight: 1
aliases:
  - '../yaml/testing'
---

Test scripts are added under `scripts` in the [overall architecture](../getting-started/yaml#template), before the build commands.

You can display test results visually in the build overview if you use expanded form of the script in `codemagic.yaml`.
Just include the `test_report` field with a glob pattern matching the test result file location. Supported test report formats are [Junit XML](https://llg.cubic.org/docs/junit/) `.JSON` for Flutter's `--machine` report.

## React Native unit test

This is a basic example with jest, given that jest tests are defined in the `package.json` file.

```bash
npm test
```

## Native Android

For non-UI tests or unit testing:

```bash
- name: Test
  script: ./gradlew test
  test_report: app/build/test-results/**/*.xml
```

UI tests (also known as instrumented tests):

```bash
- name: Launch emulator
  script: |
    cd $ANDROID_HOME/tools
    emulator -avd emulator &
    adb wait-for-device
- name: Test
  script: |
    set -e
    ./gradlew connectedAndroidTest
    adb logcat -d > emulator.log
  test_report: app/build/outputs/androidTest-results/connected/*.xml
```

**Tip**: you can save the emulator log with the `adb logcat -d > emulator.log` command.

## Native iOS

```bash
- name: iOS test
    script: |
    xcode-project run-tests \
        --workspace MyAwesomeApp.xcworkspace \
        --scheme MyAwesomeApp \
        --device "iPhone 11"
    test_report: build/ios/test/*.xml
```

Please check [Codemagic CLI tools documentation](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/xcode-project/run-tests.md#run-tests) to learn more about more optional arguments to `xcode-project run-tests`.

## Flutter test

    flutter test

**Tip:** you can display Flutter test results visually in the build overview if you use expanded form of the script in codemagic.yaml.
Just include the `test_report` field with a glob pattern matching the test result file location:

```yaml
scripts:
  - echo 'previous step'
  - name: Unit tests
    script: |
      mkdir -p test-results
      flutter test --machine > test-results/flutter.json
    test_report: test-results/flutter.json
```

## Flutter integration tests

The `flutter_driver` dependency allows you to run integration tests on a real device or emulator. Android application tests can be run on an Android emulator, iOS application tests can be run on an iOS simulator, and web application tests can be run on a web browser driver.

### Running iOS/Android application tests on a mobile simulator/emulator

```bash
flutter emulators --launch apple_ios_simulator             # for android use: flutter emulators --launch emulator
flutter drive --target=test_driver/my_drive_target.dart
```

### Running web application tests on a web browser driver

Chrome

```yaml
scripts:
  - echo 'previous step'
  - name: 'Flutter drive web test'
    script: |
      chromedriver --port=4444 &
      flutter config --enable-web
      flutter drive --target=test_driver/button_pressing.dart -d chrome --browser-name chrome --release
```

Safari

```yaml
scripts:
  - echo 'previous step'
  - name: 'Flutter drive web test'
    script: |
      sudo safaridriver --enable
      safaridriver --port 4444 &
      flutter config --enable-web
      flutter drive --target=test_driver/button_pressing.dart --browser-name safari --release
```

{{<notebox>}}
Make sure to use Flutter channel **Beta** or higher since Flutter for web is not yet available on **Stable**.
{{</notebox>}}

Commit message:

Flutter UI vs. Yaml docs improvements (#273)
* Remove separator under title.

* Render description as a subtitle.

* Updated, added, or deleted descriptions for all docs. Drive by corrected punctuation and small issues.

* Hack to add space after subtitle when first content of markdown is a notebox.

* Add page description subtitle to search results

* Add warning boxes with links between flutter and yaml code signing pages

* Add warning boxes with links from flutter google play and app store connect publishing to yaml publishing

* Updated all occurrences of Flutter UI to Flutter workflow editor. Clarified usages of UI when appropriate.

content/testing-yaml/testing.md, after:

---
title: Testing
description: How to run tests with codemagic.yaml
weight: 1
aliases:
  - '../yaml/testing'
---

Test scripts are added under `scripts` in the [overall architecture](../getting-started/yaml#template), before the build commands.

You can display test results visually in the build overview if you use expanded form of the script in `codemagic.yaml`.
Just include the `test_report` field with a glob pattern matching the test result file location. Supported test report formats are [Junit XML](https://llg.cubic.org/docs/junit/) `.JSON` for Flutter's `--machine` report.

## React Native unit tests

This is a basic example with jest, given that jest tests are defined in the `package.json` file.

```bash
npm test
```

## Native Android

For non-UI tests or unit tests:

```bash
- name: Test
  script: ./gradlew test
  test_report: app/build/test-results/**/*.xml
```

For UI tests (also known as instrumented tests):

```bash
- name: Launch emulator
  script: |
    cd $ANDROID_HOME/tools
    emulator -avd emulator &
    adb wait-for-device
- name: Test
  script: |
    set -e
    ./gradlew connectedAndroidTest
    adb logcat -d > emulator.log
  test_report: app/build/outputs/androidTest-results/connected/*.xml
```

**Tip**: you can save the emulator log with the `adb logcat -d > emulator.log` command.

## Native iOS

```bash
- name: iOS test
    script: |
    xcode-project run-tests \
        --workspace MyAwesomeApp.xcworkspace \
        --scheme MyAwesomeApp \
        --device "iPhone 11"
    test_report: build/ios/test/*.xml
```

Please check [Codemagic CLI tools documentation](https://github.com/codemagic-ci-cd/cli-tools/blob/master/docs/xcode-project/run-tests.md#run-tests) to learn more about more optional arguments to `xcode-project run-tests`.

## Flutter unit tests

    flutter test

**Tip:** you can display Flutter test results visually in the build overview if you use expanded form of the script in codemagic.yaml.
Just include the `test_report` field with a glob pattern matching the test result file location:

```yaml
scripts:
  - echo 'previous step'
  - name: Unit tests
    script: |
      mkdir -p test-results
      flutter test --machine > test-results/flutter.json
    test_report: test-results/flutter.json
```

## Flutter integration tests

The `flutter_driver` dependency allows you to run integration tests on a real device or emulator. Android application tests can be run on an Android emulator, iOS application tests can be run on an iOS simulator, and web application tests can be run on a web browser driver.

### Running iOS/Android application tests on a mobile simulator/emulator

```bash
flutter emulators --launch apple_ios_simulator             # for android use: flutter emulators --launch emulator
flutter drive --target=test_driver/my_drive_target.dart
```

### Running web application tests on a web browser driver

Chrome

```yaml
scripts:
  - echo 'previous step'
  - name: 'Flutter drive web test'
    script: |
      chromedriver --port=4444 &
      flutter config --enable-web
      flutter drive --target=test_driver/button_pressing.dart -d chrome --browser-name chrome --release
```

Safari

```yaml
scripts:
  - echo 'previous step'
  - name: 'Flutter drive web test'
    script: |
      sudo safaridriver --enable
      safaridriver --port 4444 &
      flutter config --enable-web
      flutter drive --target=test_driver/button_pressing.dart --browser-name safari --release
```

{{<notebox>}}
Flutter for web is available in Flutter version **2.0.0** or higher on the **stable** channel.
{{</notebox>}}
